E-commerce simplifies communication activities and contributes to changing relationships between businesses and organizations. For e-commerce, businesses, whether from the perspective of buyers or suppliers, can save a lot of time and money for their transaction and business activities.

Through e-commerce, businesses collect more information. Specifically, businesses can collect a lot of information about the market and business partners from which to gain rich information about the market and build production and business strategies appropriate to the development trend. development of domestic, regional and international markets. In addition, businesses can also collect customer feedback to serve as a basis for changes and improvements to better serve customers.

E-commerce helps businesses promote information and reach a global market. With a certain amount of money each month, businesses can bring their advertising information to hundreds of millions of viewers from all over the world. This is something only e-commerce can do.

E-commerce helps businesses save costs. E-commerce helps businesses reduce costs such as office costs, distribution costs of businesses, selling and marketing costs as well as transaction costs.

E-commerce helps businesses provide better services to customers. With e-commerce, businesses can provide catalogs, information, and price lists to customers quickly, facilitating customers to buy directly from the internet. In addition, customers can also grasp information about the business quickly.

E-commerce helps businesses increase revenue effectively. With e-commerce, business customers are no longer limited in terms of geography or time, so the number of customers of the business will increase significantly, thereby increasing revenue.
B2C e-commerce model (English: Business to Customer) is an e-commerce model between businesses and consumers. In terms of characteristics, businesses participating in this business model will conduct activities for the purpose of approaching and selling their products and services to individual customers. According to statistics, the B2C model is the most widely applied commercial model today. Although the number of businesses following the B2C commerce model is very large, the value that B2C e-commerce model businesses receive is still relatively limited. However, this commercial model is experiencing remarkable development in recent years. Specifically, according to statistics in 2008, the revenue of B2C businesses was only about 255 USD, in 2019, this number has increased to about 4.9 trillion USD.

The first form of the known B2C e-commerce model was the grocery store model. The next level of evolution of this model is building value-added websites. Value-added websites means that these websites not only provide customers with the ability to purchase goods and services online, but also help deliver value-added products and services. for customers.

The most widely known B2C e-commerce model today is probably the online retail model (e-tailer). This model is similar to the traditional sales model, but instead of buying directly, customers will visit the online store to check if there is stock in stock and place an order through an electronic device. Internet connection device. In addition, another B2C e-commerce model includes: Direct sales, online intermediaries, B2C through advertising, B2C based on community, B2C through charging.
Popular e-commerce models
E-commerce model or business model in the information age is a term that is becoming more and more familiar to businesses in the context of information technology with breakthrough and rapid developments, especially especially in the field of mobile communications and computers. E-commerce model can be understood as a method of conducting business activities of enterprises based on electronic and information technology platforms for the purpose of implementing the strategies set out and agreed upon by enterprises. satisfy the needs of customers, thereby earning maximum profits for the business. To be able to build a successful e-commerce model, it requires businesses to be able to effectively apply information technology and e-technology in solving problems, including the value that businesses have. the business generates, the revenue model that the business conducts, the market opportunities that the enterprise can obtain, the existence of the enterprise in a competitive environment, promoting the enterprise's competitive advantage compared to competitors, effectively implement the business strategy that the enterprise has set out, build a reasonable organization and management team.
According to researchers, Dong Ho folk paintings belong to the line of paintings printed from wood-carved boards created by the people of Dong Ho village, Song Ho commune, Thuan Thanh district, Bac Ninh province, and developed into a craft village. Paintings that stick with and vividly show the traditional agricultural society, the working life of Vietnamese people, dated July 2014 the People's Committee of Bac Ninh province approved the project to protect and promote the value of cultural heritage. Dong Ho folk painting in the period 2014-2020 with a vision to 2030 in order to affirm the preservation and promotion of its values.
In addition, researchers conduct research, evaluate and analyze the current status of conservation and promotion of the value of Dong Ho folk painting heritage, forecast negative impacts, and then take measures to timely and effective action to prevent the negative impact of this line of paintings.
Recently, many projects are dedicated to bringing paintings or images in Dong Ho paintings into modern life by redrawing paintings, designing them accordingly and then printing them on products such as souvenirs, Ao Dai, and T-shirts. bibs, desk calendars, cloth bags…
Therefore, Dong Ho paintings have also begun to attract more attention of young people. According to Mr. Nguyen Van Anh, these initial steps have "blown" into the folk paintings a new life. Besides being modernized, Dong Ho paintings are also "revived" in fashion and interior design by young people.
If recognized by UNESCO, this will be the most practical step to save and revive the painting profession. That will establish a legal basis for the Government, authorities at all levels and concerned agencies to invest in heritage protection. It also creates a sense of motivation for the community and the whole society to join hands in preserving the heritage.
Dong Ho folk painting village is facing new opportunities. Hopefully in the near future, with the investment and participation of the authorities, the enthusiasm and love of the craft of the artisans, Dong Ho painting village will find its original position and become more and more popular. develop and enrich the culture imbued with the identity of the Vietnamese nation.
especially the role of enthusiastic artisans inheriting the values ​​and achievements of the painting profession from the past to the present. In addition, the State and businesses need to come up with plans, strategies and activities in reality.
During the 11th National Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam (2011), the concept of "Ho Chi Minh Thought" was mentioned as follows:

Ho Chi Minh Thought includes a system of comprehensive and profound views on basic issues of the Vietnamese revolution, which is the result of the creative application and development of Marxism-Leninism in the conditions of Vietnam. specific characteristics of the country, along with the inheritance and development of good traditional values ​​of the nation, absorbing the cultural quintessence of the times. This is an extremely great and valuable spiritual asset of the Party and the nation, a light to illuminate the way for the nation's revolutionary cause to win.

This concept has clearly indicated the basic content of Ho Chi Minh's thought, the basis of formation and the meaning of that thought, specifically as follows:

First, this concept clearly states the scientific and revolutionary nature and basic content of Ho Chi Minh's thought. It is a comprehensive and profound system of views on the basic problems faced by the Vietnamese revolution and thereby reflects the normative issues of the Vietnamese revolution. Ho Chi Minh Thought is also a comprehensive and profound system of views on the goal of building a peaceful, unified, independent, democratic and prosperous Vietnam, contributing to the world revolutionary cause.

Second, referring to the foundation of Ho Chi Minh's thought is Marxism-Leninism. Accordingly, Marxism-Leninism is the most basic value in the process of forming and developing Ho Chi Minh's thought. In addition, Ho Chi Minh has also continuously absorbed the fine traditional values ​​of the Vietnamese nation and the quintessence of human culture.

Third, the meaning of Ho Chi Minh's thought has been raised, affirming that this is a great and valuable spiritual asset of the Party and our nation, illuminating the revolutionary cause of the nation.
During this period, our country has undergone many changes. Starting in 1858 when the French empire began to invade our country, the Nguyen court signed surrender treaties and became a henchman for the French colonialists.

From 1858 to the end of the 19th century, patriotic struggle movements against the French invaders broke out continuously such as: the uprising of Truong Dinh, Nguyen Trung Truc, the uprising of Tran Tan, Dang Nhu Mai,... Although this uprising failed, it also demonstrated the patriotic spirit of our people.

After completing the military pacification of our country, the French colonialists strongly embarked on colonial exploitation and turned our country into a colonial and feudal country leading to structural changes. class and social class. The French colonialists still maintained a backward economy, the society appeared new classes such as the working class, the bourgeoisie, the urban petty bourgeoisie, etc., which created fundamental contradictions in society. .

By the beginning of the 20th century, there were many patriotic movements in the direction of bourgeois democracy, led by patriotic scholars with a spirit of reform, such as: Dong Du movement of Phan Boi Chau, movement movement. Duy Tan by Phan Chau Trinh…and especially Yen Bai Uprising. However, the patriotic movements mentioned above all failed.

In that context, the birth of the working class and the struggle movement of the Vietnamese working class made the struggle for national liberation in our country appear new signs of a new era. This movement is a favorable condition for Marxism-Leninism to penetrate and spread into our country. It was Ho Chi Minh who spread Marxism-Leninism into the workers' movement and the patriotic movement of Vietnam, as well as prepared in terms of political theory, ideology and organization, and founded the Communist Party of Vietnam. to end the crisis of Vietnam's revolutionary line.

World practice from the end of the 19th century to the beginning of the 20th century

From the end of the 19th century to the beginning of the 20th century, capitalism in the world developed strongly from the stage of free competition to the stage of imperialism. Some countries such as Britain, France, the US, etc. have dominated the world situation, while Asian, African and Latin American countries have become colonies and dependent on imperialist countries. .

This situation has deepened the inherent contradictions in capitalism. Towards the beginning of the 20th century, these contradictions became more and more acute. The independence of the colonial peoples was not only their own requirement but also the common desire of the international proletariat and motivated them. promote the development of national liberation movements in the world.

The successful Russian October Revolution ushered in a new era, an era of transition from capitalism to socialism on a worldwide scale. This also strongly influenced Ho Chi Minh on his way to the world to find goals and ways to save the country.
The precious traditional values ​​of the nation

Patriotism is the ideological foundation, starting point and driving force for Ho Chi Minh to go out to find a way to save the country and see in Marxism-Leninism the way to save the country and the people. Ho Chi Minh inherited and developed the spirit of heroic and indomitable struggle for the nation and freedom of the country to protect national sovereignty and territorial integrity.

In the process of leading the Vietnamese people to build and protect the country, Ho Chi Minh paid great attention to inheriting and developing the fine traditional values ​​of the nation, which is the people of the country associated with love of the people, spirit of love and spirit of the people. solidarity, ... In Ho Chi Minh's thought, people are the most precious capital that determines the success of the revolution.

In addition, pride in history, respect for culture, language, customs and habits are also good values ​​that contribute to the formation of Ho Chi Minh's thought.

The quintessence of human culture

The quintessence of Eastern culture and thought crystallizes in the three great doctrines of Confucianism, Buddhism and Taoism. For Confucianism, Ho Chi Minh paid attention to inheriting and renewing the ideology of using human dignity and virtue to manage society and inheriting, renewing and developing the Confucian spirit of morality in cultivation and training. human ethics in the moral Party building work. For Buddhism, Ho Chi Minh focused on inheriting and developing humanistic thought and positive ethics in Buddhism in building a new society and new people in Vietnam. As for Taoism, Ho Chi Minh paid attention to inheriting and spreading Lao Tzu's thought, advising people to live in harmony with nature, in harmony with nature and to protect the living environment. In addition, Ho Chi Minh also inherited and developed many ideas of different schools of Eastern, Indian, Chinese thinkers, etc.

The quintessence of Western culture

Ho Chi Minh inherited and developed the human rights and civil rights views expressed in the American Declaration of Independence in 1776 and the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen in 1791 as well as proposed views on the pursuit of human rights. independence, freedom and happiness of nations in the new era.

On the way to find a way to save the country, Ho Chi Minh also studied the theory, political, economic and cultural situation of mankind in the major political, economic and cultural centers of other powers.

Marxism-Leninism

Marxism-Leninism is considered an important theoretical foundation that determines the qualitative development of Ho Chi Minh's thought. Applying and developing creatively Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh solved the crisis about the way to save the country and the revolutionary leader in Vietnam at that time. Marxism-Leninism is the worldview and methodology in revolutionary awareness and activities. On the basis of the stance, viewpoints and methods of Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh thoroughly inherited and developed the good values ​​of the Vietnamese nation and the quintessence of human culture combined with revolutionary practices in the country and the world to form a system of basic and comprehensive views on the Vietnamese revolution. Marxism-Leninism is the most important theoretical premise that determines the formation of Ho Chi Minh's thought.

In the process of leading the Vietnamese revolution, President Ho Chi Minh not only applied creatively but also supplemented, developed and enriched Marxism-Leninism in the new era. In national issues and national liberation revolution, socialism and socialist construction in Vietnam, issues of Party and State building, culture, people, morality, etc. All of Ho Chi Minh had complementary arguments and creative development of Marxism-Leninism. Ho Chi Minh Thought is a leap in the history of Vietnamese thought.
Ho Chi Minh was a man with lofty ideals and great ambitions to save the people, save the country from misery, and catch up with advanced countries in the world. People with great will and energy, alone dared to go abroad to survey the reality of rich imperialist countries as well as poor colonial peoples. He did many different jobs to live, know many foreign languages, self-study and do revolutionary activities.

In particular, Ho Chi Minh is a person with the ability to think independently, creatively, critical, innovative and revolutionary. Ho Chi Minh had a strategic vision, covering the era that brought the Vietnamese revolution into the common flow of the world revolution and was a person who had the ability to summarize reality, the ability to prophesy, and forecast the future accurately. and miraculously lead the entire Party, army, and people to victory.

Ho Chi Minh was a man who was loyal to the country, filial to the people, and fought for the revolutionary cause of the Communist Party of Vietnam all his life. These personal qualities are one of the decisive factors for Ho Chi Minh's creative success in theoretical and practical activities.

Active talent, practical summaries and theoretical development

Ho Chi Minh was also a man with rich and extraordinary revolutionary life and practice. Before becoming President, Ho Chi Minh lived, studied, worked and worked in about 30 countries around the world. He has a deep understanding of imperialism, colonialism and colonialism in both theory and practice.

He also understood about the national liberation movement, socialist construction and communist party building. Ho Chi Minh was the great organizer of the Vietnamese revolution, turning revolutionary ideals and theories into vivid reality.

Personal qualities and rich practical activities in many different fields in the country and in the world are subjective factors contributing to the formation of Ho Chi Minh's thought.
The process of formation and development of Ho Chi Minh's thought
In the previous sections, we have learned what the concept of Ho Chi Minh Thought is, as well as the objective and subjective bases that form Ho Chi Minh Thought. So how did the formation and development of Ho Chi Minh's thought take place? We will find the answer to that question in this section.

Based on Ho Chi Minh's life and career, researchers have divided into five main stages in the development of Ho Chi Minh's thought, specifically:

The period of formation of patriotic thought and revolutionary aspiration (1890-1911)
During this first period, Ho Chi Minh received the patriotic and benevolent tradition of the nation of his homeland and family. This is also the period when he absorbed the cultural capital of Quoc Hoc, Hanhology and initially came into contact with Western culture. At the same time, during this period, Ho Chi Minh witnessed with his own eyes the people's miserable and miserable life and the indomitable fighting spirit of his father, forming his ambition to save the people and the country. Thanks to that, he found the right direction to soon go to success.

The period of finding the way to save the country & liberate the nation (1911 - 1920)
This period began in 1911 with the landmark event in 1911, Nguyen Tat Thanh left his country to the West to find a way to save the country. It is a new, unprecedented job, different from the traditional direction to the East of the predecessors. This was also the period when Ho Chi Minh traveled all over the continents to learn about the great revolutions in the world and survey the lives of people of oppressed ethnic groups.
First, no direct contact. Since the advent of the Internet, the exchange of information has expanded rapidly worldwide with an increasing number of participants. Participants may be individuals or businesses, may or may not be known at all. They meet each other on online virtual marketplaces to conduct surveys and buy and sell.

Second, the concept of borders is gradually being erased. The faster e-commerce develops, the more personal computers become a useful tool for businesses to reach the global market. Not only the world's leading companies reach this market, but even startups have borderless consumption and distribution networks right at the click of a button. With e-commerce, entrepreneurs can start their own business without leaving their home.

Third, the main information network is the market. Through e-commerce, many new business types have been formed and developed. E-commerce Web sites' ease of use, ease of understanding are decisive in attracting customers. In e-commerce, the method of creating, exchanging, preserving and processing information does not completely replace the basic functions of information for a traditional party to a contract.

Fourth, e-commerce has the participation of at least three actors. In e-commerce activities, there are at least three parties involved, including buyers, sellers and network service providers, certification agencies, etc. These are the people who create the environment for commercial transactions. e-commerce. The network service provider is responsible for the transportation and storage of information between the parties to the e-commerce transaction and for confirming the reliability of the information in the e-commerce transaction.

Fifth, the size and location of firms become unimportant. In e-commerce, any business large or small has easy access to potential customers. For example, startups such as Amazon, E-trade... have redefined their respective markets and captured a large market share on the Internet. One advantage of a presence on the Web is that it has no definite location, including time zones and territorial boundaries. Through the Web, businesses can reach customers in geographic areas that were previously inaccessible.


Research object of scientific socialism
Scientific socialism directly studies and argues the historical mission of the working class, the conditions and the way for the working class to fulfill its historical mission. Scientific socialism also points out the clearest and most direct socio-political arguments to prove and confirm the inevitable replacement of capitalism with socialism.

Scientific socialism is a continuation of Marxist philosophical logics and political economy, a direct expression of the purpose and political validity of Marxism-Leninism in practice. That is, scientific socialism is the science that provides answers to the question: by what way to make the transition from capitalism to socialism.

Scientific socialism explains the direction and principles of strategies and tactics, the ways and forms of working class struggle, the roles, organizational principles and appropriate forms of the system. The political system of the working class…

The task of scientific socialism is to criticize and fight against anti-communist and anti-socialist ideological currents and to protect the purity of Marxism-Leninism and the achievements of the social revolution. tenet.

Research method of scientific socialism
The method of combining history and logic: It is a characteristic and important method for scientific socialism. It is necessary to base on practical data of historical facts to analyze and draw conclusions, generalize closely structured and scientific theories to draw out the logic of history. Analyze the history and development of production methods, etc. to derive the logic of the historical process.

The method of surveying and analyzing socio-political aspects based on socio-economic conditions: This is a method with specific characteristics of scientific socialism. When researching, surveying, etc., it is necessary to have socio-political acumen before all domestic and international social activities and relations.

Comparative method: This method is used to compare and clarify the similarities and differences in socio-political aspects between capitalism and socialism production methods, etc.

Methods are interdisciplinary: That is to use many specific research methods of other social sciences such as diagramming, modeling, statistics, etc. to study socio-political aspects of activities in class society.

Above is a collection of free & latest scientific socialism essay topics that can help students demonstrate their ability to synthesize knowledge and their own thinking. If you are struggling to make a thesis or dissertation related to these topics, please leave a message so that we can help you quickly and best.
The fact that Ho Chi Minh went abroad came from the national consciousness and the ambition to save the country. Through the journey to many colonial countries (dependency, capitalism, empire...) He was touched by the misery and oppression of the working people, he realized that everywhere people wanted to be. want to be freed from the yoke of oppression and exploitation. With a passionate patriotism, Ho Chi Minh patiently endured all difficulties and hardships and paid attention to the situation of other countries, thought about what he had seen and heard, enthusiastically studied and participated in activities. speeches of many politicians and philosophers.

In 1919, on behalf of the Vietnamese patriots, Nguyen Ai Quoc sent to the Peace Conference in Versailles a claim of the Annamite people, demanding that the French government recognize the people's right to freedom, democracy and equality. Vietnamese people. The claim exposed the crimes of the French colonialists, making the world people in general and the French people in particular pay attention to the situation in Vietnam and Indochina.

The journey of five continents and four seas has not only formed in Ho Chi Minh the affection and sense of solidarity among the oppressed nations, but also trained him to become a worker with full qualities, thoughts, and minds. of the proletariat.

In 1920, when he was exposed to the Marxist-Leninist thesis on national and colonial issues, Nguyen Ai Quoc found the right path for the cause of national salvation and national liberation. He also voted in favor of siding with the Communist International III, participating in the founding of the French Communist Party and this event marked an important qualitative change in Nguyen Ai Quoc's thought from patriotism to patriotism. Marxism-Leninism, from national enlightenment to class enlightenment, from patriot to communist.

In short, at this stage, through contacting and coming to Marxism-Leninism, Ho Chi Minh found the true path for the Vietnamese revolution, which is the proletarian revolutionary path.

The period of basic formation of Vietnamese revolutionary thought (1920 - 1930)
This was a period of extremely dynamic and rich theoretical and practical activities of Nguyen Ai Quoc to move towards the establishment of the Vietnamese revolutionary political party. He was active in the colonial research department of the French Communist Party, participated in the founding of the Colonial Union, and published Le Paria newspaper to propagate Marxism-Leninism in colonial countries.

In mid-1923, Nguyen Ai Quoc went to Moscow to attend the international farmers' conference and was elected to the association's chairmanship, then continued to attend the 5th Communist International Congress and other congresses of mass organizations. such as International Youth, International Red Relief, International Red Union, ..

At the end of 1924, Nguyen Ai Quoc returned to Guangzhou, China organized the Vietnam Revolutionary Youth Association, published youth newspapers, opened political training classes, trained cadres and brought them back to the country to operate.

In February 1930, he presided over a conference to unify Communist Party organizations in the country, founded the Communist Party of Vietnam and directly drafted documents such as the Brief Mainline, Brief Strategy, Chapter the party's agenda and brief constitution. These documents together with two previous publications, Judgment of French Colonialism and Revolutionary Road, marked the basic formation of Ho Chi Minh's thought on the revolutionary path in Vietnam.
It can be said that this period was the most difficult period in the life of Ho Chi Minh's revolutionary activities. In the late 20s and early 30s of the twentieth century, the Communist International was heavily influenced by the leftist trend and this trend had a direct impact on the Vietnamese revolutionary movement. The most obvious manifestation is the decisions made during the first meeting of the provisional Central Committee of the Party. During this conference, it was argued that the Unification Conference of the Communist Parties was not properly understood, so it misnamed the Party, and decided to change its name to the Indochinese Communist Party. The conference also criticized and criticized Nguyen Ai Quoc's path outlined in the Brief Mainline and Brief Strategy.

With his right views and lines, Ho Chi Minh still persistently defended his views on the nation and class issues, the national liberation revolution and the proletariat revolution in the country to protect the nation. against leftist and partisan expressions in the Party. And reality has proved that Ho Chi Minh's point of view is correct.
Visitors to the village can not only see with their own eyes the folk artisans manipulating the technique of printing paintings on paper, but also visit and experience painting, holding pictures printed by their own hands to bring back as souvenirs. concept. Painting households can sell their products, and craft villages are preserved and developed. However, to do this, it is necessary to promote propaganda and promotion to attract visitors. In addition to advertising on television and newspapers, the locality needs to develop a strategy to promote Dong Ho painting products on multimedia sites and social networking sites.
In order to promote more effectiveness, in the coming time, the locality will have to promote cooperation with neighboring provinces and cities to diversify the schedule of destinations of tours, innovate the way of introducing and explaining to tourists. lively, emphasizing the uniqueness of Dong Ho folk paintings, creating conditions for visitors to experience some stages of painting for themselves.
The locality also supports people to equip themselves with knowledge on how to do tourism, and to train skills in doing community tourism; planning, embellishing and restoring the craft village space; invest in upgrading services to better meet the needs of tourists.
In Vietnam in the past, craftsmen whether in urban areas (such as Thang Long, Pho Hien, Hoi An, Gia Dinh) or rural areas were gathered together into wards. In big cities, each ward lives on one street (Hanoi - 36 wards), while in rural areas, people living in wards are scattered throughout the village, not forming separate areas (except for residents of traditional craft villages). live on the edge of the village). Ward bosses can cut each person's turn for a year. Vietnam's trade wards are not strictly professional organizations, inhibiting the inside and competing with the outside, but only helping each other in daily life as filial piety. The head of the ward is the ward boss who is elected due to his prestige and ability, cannot practice, has no privileges and privileges. The ward boss represents the ward in relation to the local government and other wards; organize the transfer of ranks for apprentices, supervise the collection and expenditure of the ward fund, and administer and regulate relations in the ward. The collective activities of the ward every year are only on the anniversaries and birthdays of the craft groups. Wards do not play a significant role in career development as well as in rural social institutions.
favorite feudalism, performed at village communal houses and even at the royal court, then developed in guilds, using women and gradually deformed. During the colonial period, ca tru developed in urban areas in the caverns where alcohol and opium were supplied. After 1945, when the Viet Minh came to power, it was criticized for its association with prostitution activities of the old regime (writer Nguyen Tuan published the work Chua Dan with the intention of not worshiping God, worshiping Buddha but only worshiping the lute. praised the art form, but he had to insert a beginning and an end after the Viet Minh took power). After 1954, Ca Tru was officially banned, but was restored after Doi Moi was launched and today is often considered a scholarly art of Vietnamese traditional music.
On October 1, 2009, Ca Tru was registered as an intangible heritage in need of urgent protection. This is a UNESCO title in Vietnam with a large influence area, with a scope to 16 provinces and cities in the northern half of Vietnam. The nomination file for Ca Tru is a world cultural heritage with Ca Tru cultural space spanning 16 northern provinces, including: Phu Tho, Vinh Phuc, Hanoi, Bac Giang, Bac Ninh, Hai Phong, Hai Duong, Hung Yen, Ha Nam, Nam Dinh, Thai Binh, Ninh Binh, Thanh Hoa, Nghe An, Ha Tinh and Quang Binh. Ca Tru is a masterpiece of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity ranked second after the Korean pansori.
Have you ever wondered: What is money that so many people blindly pursue, what happiness is that so many people yearn for and hope for. These two things seem to have nothing to do with each other, but they create a close and intimate relationship in life.
So what is the exact state of Dong Ho painting that we need to ask UNESCO to join hands to protect so urgently. Although the communal house is still there, the name of the village is still the same, but the bustling atmosphere of the days when the whole village made paintings in the 8-9 lunar month to prepare for 6 painting market sessions. poetry and memory.
Now in mid-October, Dong Ho village is also busy with other occupations; In the past, making code and making paintings was the main occupation of Dong Ho village, but as life changed, the demand for Dong Ho paintings on the traditional New Year day gradually decreased, so the number of people who made paintings became less and less. The people of Dong Ho village cannot be blamed for not keeping the traditions of their village because when the cultural values ​​of the ethnic community cannot be attached to the people in the true sense of the food and the money, the decay is abandoned according to the needs of the market. School is inevitable.
If visitors want to learn about Dong Ho folk paintings, they will never see the image of a painting village like the old days again and the people producing folk paintings are only a few, which can be counted on the fingers. According to statistics, about the subject of the heritage, if in the past, the whole Dong Ho village had 17 families, all of them made paintings, now only 2 families remain with this profession with 2 main artisans, Nguyen. Dang Che and Nguyen Huu Qua, who are really passionate about their craft, have had the merit of collecting, researching, and preserving their father's line of traditional folk paintings that have existed for hundreds of years. It is thanks to the merits of preserving and maintaining the production of folk paintings by the three families of the above artisans that the name "traditional village of Dong Ho paintings" still exists as one of the rare cultural tourist destinations. available in our country. Each family, including the main and auxiliary workers, has about 10 people. In which, the number of people who inherit elaborate stages such as making patterns, engraving prints, mixing colors is very small, only 1 or 2 children in the rest of the family all do simple labors such as printing pictures, retiring. In fact, the old Ho village and Dong Khe village have now become a bustling macaron-making village.
Currently, in "Dong Ho village" every year, the number of tourists visiting and buying folk paintings is not much, mainly foreigners. So the product sells only about 2-3 thousand sets of paintings/year, the price of each set of paintings is only 3-4 USD/set is a lot. With such a demand for folk paintings, this is not an affluent occupation for the majority of craft villagers. The existence of a traditional craft village, especially the production of folk paintings, will become an extremely difficult problem today. Should it be, when the State has a priority policy to restore and preserve the national culture through major monuments such as Dau Pagoda, But Thap pagoda, a folklore address like Dong Ho painting village has a tradition of hundreds of years, it is also advisable to rebuild and reorganize a small thatch-making area with thatched-roof houses, ground floor, drying yard and traditional thatch-making tools, so that domestic and foreign tourists can come and see again. Get the traditional atmosphere of an old painting village. Although the traditional Tet days of the nation no longer see the bustling picture market on the wharf under the boat of an old picture village, the glimpse of the color of papyrus paper drying on the bamboo poles outside the yard also reminds us of In the past, the paintings of ancient villages still warmed the love of the homeland in simple, innocent colors that were imbued with human love.
Happiness is the feeling of being happy, satisfied because you feel completely having what you want, and money is money that is used to spend and use. Money and happiness have a harmonious relationship with each other.

Silver money with the big image to view for us. It is a necessary condition for many activities of life such as studying, eating, defaulting, staying, returning... Every job we do requires a lot of money. We have to eat every day to sustain life. With money, we can buy the foods we need every day. Imagine if one day we don't have money to spend, can't buy the necessary things for life, then what will we be like? Without eating and drinking, without the minimum things to live, our health will certainly be reduced along with many systems, medical examination and treatment will be difficult, studying and working will be difficult. Not guaranteed.

Besides material values, we also meet divine values ​​when we have money. We can organize outings or simply activities, services such as Internet, telephone, we must have money to be able to pay for those activities. We need money, we need money every day to pay for the necessities of life. The coin for example has a part that governs our operations and needs. Everyone has essential needs for their family, for themselves, naturally with what we have, need to know how to spend appropriately, to know how to calculate what they need and have. If is a Poor's birthday has just graduated from school, she needs a motorbike to go, with what she has, she can only buy a normal car, not luxury, money but has met the needs request of the body. Or besides, rich students and children can buy expensive and luxurious cars ... But whether they have a lot of money or a little money, with their own needs, with a calculation and balance, we We can satisfy the needs of life, but right now we are not really satisfied. Money is a necessary condition for a happy life, but it is not a sufficient condition for a happy life. There are people who only know how to make money, they work hard, make money because they don't know when enough is enough, but they don't care, don't know how to appreciate what they have. Face them, they're happy where they make money. And when I realize that I don't have real happiness, it's probably too early. These coins cannot be exchanged for happiness. When you have money, create spiritual values ​​​​to have fun and be immersed in life, that is a condition for happiness and development.

So we can say that money is a necessary condition but happiness is not enough. When the city has a dream but agrees to accept, cherish and love what we have, accept what we cannot have, and have a clear awareness of money, then we are blessed.
In that old society, money was like a universal force. People's happiness can be bought and sold with value for money. But today, there are many people who do not know how to appreciate money, giving birth to bad habits of laziness, corruption, stagnation... Everything is already there, no one has to do anything without guidance, they just know how to enjoy what money can bring, which requires mental training and willpower, they can't get happiness. They don't listen to music to know what good music is or don't know how to read newspapers to know who's happy and who's miserable, they don't have time to have a long, deep love story to understand a friend, to understand what a friend is. a friendship.
Marxist-Leninist philosophy is a compulsory general subject for most students of universities and colleges in order to provide basic knowledge about philosophy and Marxism-Leninism. Writing essays on Philosophy, as a form of testing and assessing students' ability that teachers often give out during their studies, you must choose a research topic to complete the essay in accordance with the requirements. in terms of form, content and methodology. In order to help you save time searching for references as well as understand clearly about the format of presenting an essay and determining research methods, TaiLieu.VN would like to introduce to you Philosophical Essays. collection of standard essay samples of students with content in specific subject programs such as: national identity, class struggle, law of production relations, human development, Dialectical contradictions about building a market economy, industrial machinery,... Let's refer to it to make it more convenient for you to research and complete your essay well.
The point of view of the materialist dialectic about the particular, the common and the unique: - The general and the particular are a pair of categories in the Marxist-Leninist materialist dialectic and are one of the contents of the principle of The universal relationship refers to the dialectical relationship between the particular or the category indicating a certain thing, phenomenon, or process and the general or the category indicating aspects and attributes that are not only relevant. in a certain material structure, but also repeated in many other individual things, phenomena or processes.
From a verb in the ordinary sense has become a proper noun. After reforming, the art of Cai Luong was different from the art of singing boi both in terms of content and form.
About the time of its birth, according to Vuong Hong Sen: although "some people think that Cai Luong has been around since 1916, or 1918", according to him, it has been since November 16, 1918, when Gia Long's tuong left the country. premiered at the Saigon West Theater, this new and novel way of singing "expanded unceasingly, opening a new profession, taking the dan ca and ca ca to reorganize, add to it forever, both reform and reform. ...so the reformation is always formed, no one knows for sure..."
Most researchers now agree on the interpretation of the two words reformed in the sense: reform is reform, salary is traditional salary. That means renewing the genre of folk music so that through here, there are legends and stories that we want to convey to the audience, the people and many generations today and in the future.
The content of Cai Luong plays is from famous stories such as Kim Van Kieu story, Luc Van Tien story, story Luu Binh - Duong Le, Lan and Diep, etc. to satisfy the audience's tastes. The style of cai luong is folk instruments combined with folk vocals, creating a distinctive feature and also attracting the audience.
early ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find their
nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly changed at all. The sun
rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the
Dursleys’ front door; it crept into their living room, which was almost exactly
the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful news
report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed
how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of
what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets —
but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a
large blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a
computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother. The
room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long.
His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise
of the day.
“Up! Get up! Now!”
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
“Up!” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and
then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back
and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a good one.
There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the
same dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
“Are you up yet?” she demanded.
“Nearly,” said Harry.
“Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.”
Harry groaned.
“What did you say?” his aunt snapped through the door.
“Nothing, nothing…”
Dudley’s birthday — how could he have forgotten? Harry got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after
pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to spiders, because
the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and that was where he slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as though
Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention the second
television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a
mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise unless of course
it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was Harry, but
he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of
Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry had a thin
face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round glasses
held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley had
punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked about his own appearance
was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He
had had it as long as he could remember, and the first question he could ever
remember asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
“In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. “And don’t ask
questions.”
Don’t ask questions that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.
“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper
and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts than
the rest of the boys in his class put together, but it made no difference, his hair
simply grew that way all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not
much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly on
his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby angel Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult as
there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents. His
face fell.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer it
while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, a video
camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and a VCR. He
was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia came back from
the telephone looking both angry and worried.
Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror, but Harry’s heart gave a leap. Every
year on Dudley’s birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for the day, to
adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every year, Harry was
left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away. Harry
hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg made him
look at photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting
old sweater of Dudley’s (brown with orange puff balls). The harder she tried to
pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until finally it might have
fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided
it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t punished.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were
starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on their
favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley
had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough ice cream on
top, Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed to finish the
first.
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea
while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As
far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything except snap playfully at
their heels as it passed, but by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car,
Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was
swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least,
was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harry was talking to it, weren’t you,
Harry.
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch. He didn’t
know what time it was and he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet.
Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the kitchen for some food.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some
unknown relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped) that
strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers they were,
too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once while out shopping
with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry furiously if he knew the man,
Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying anything. A wildlooking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus.
A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street
the other day and then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all
these people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry tried to get a
closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s gang hated
that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody
liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.
As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into tears
and said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, he looked so
handsome and grown-up. Harry didn’t trust himself to speak. He thought two of
his ribs might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley was in shock.
With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the
hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the ground
to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the fact that Harry had
grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a minute of confused
fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon
straightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter clutched in his hand.
Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had
moved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn’t received his first
letter. Surely that meant they’d try again? And this time he’d make sure they
didn’t fail. He had a plan.
Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the big,
squashy something had been his uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at the
foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making sure that Harry didn’t do
exactly what he’d been trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about half an hour
and then told him to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into
the kitchen and by the time he got back, the mail had arrived, right into Uncle
Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters addressed in green ink.
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to Harry
found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two
dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Petunia through
the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone calls to the
post office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to, Aunt Petunia
shredded the letters in her food processor.
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the
next day. They had just finished when the owner of the hotel came over to their
table.
Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn’t answer Aunt Petunia when she asked what he’d bought.
It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what
looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most
miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was certain, there was no
television in there.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind
whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and
empty. There were only two rooms.
Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and
shriveled up.
“Could do with some of those letters now, eh?” he said cheerfully.
He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a
chance of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed,
though the thought didn’t cheer him up at all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy
windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second room and
made up a bed for Dudley on the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon went
off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find the softest bit of floor
he could and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket.
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and
with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard, but
you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles under all the hair.
The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just
brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it easily back
into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. He turned to look
at them all.
From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly squashed
box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky chocolate
cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green icing.
His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and he
snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn’t see what he was doing
but when he drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire there. It filled the
whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt the warmth wash over him
as though he’d sunk into a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle, a
squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a
bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from before starting to make tea.
Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a
thing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly
burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said
sharply, “Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley”.
Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clamped it in its beak,
went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm. Then he came back and
sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the telephone.
Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it quickly.
Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large balloon
was swelling inside him. He went straight to the window and jerked it open. The
owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, who didn’t wake
up. Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. Then he flew off
through the open window.
For a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. A few old women were
sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. One of them was smoking a
long pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender, who was
quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. The low buzz of chatter stopped
when they walked in.
One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside Gringotts.
Harry didn’t know where to run first now that he had a bag full of money.
Hagrid wouldn’t let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron, either (“It says
pewter on yer list”), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing potion
ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited the Apothecary,
which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad
eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor; jars of herbs,
dried roots, and bright powders lined the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of
fangs, and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. While Hagrid asked the man
behind the counter for a supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry, Harry
himself examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and
minuscule, glittery-black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).
In life, we will inevitably have difficult times and fall, but we have to stand up, step through those difficulties and continue on our way and appreciate life every day so that life can be fulfilled. always peaceful. Peace is the feeling of joy, happiness, comfort in the heart without being attached or thinking about anything in life. Peace is also the fact that each person knows how to let go of things that do not belong to them, cherish their own life without looking at or envious of the lives of others. Life if only competition or calculation will make people always in a state of discomfort, all day living in worry, darkness, not fully enjoying the joy and beauty of life. People who know how to let go of everything, live in peace and serenity will have happiness and find this life more meaningful. We should not compete for things that do not belong to us as well as let go of our sorrows to move towards positive things. If everyone in this society lives in peace, the society will develop more beautiful. However, in today's society there are still many people who live with more realistic calculations, with ambitions or too pessimism that cannot let go of their sufferings, always tormenting themselves;... these people deserve it. criticized and need to correct this character. Facing challenges, each person should keep peace in their hearts and move forward, to good things. No one is perfect, but when we know how to try to perfect ourselves and move forward, we will achieve results worthy of our efforts.
One of the core things that make life valuable is to appreciate life every day. Appreciating life is living fully, working and enjoying the good values ​​of life, ignoring all troubles and worries. People who appreciate life are people who live happily, inspire themselves and create positive energy for life. People who appreciate life are those who don't calculate, worry and aim for good things that are useful to people and life. Each person only has one life to live, time gone cannot be regained, that's why each of us needs to know how to appreciate life and create unique values ​​for ourselves. Appreciating the present life is a solid springboard for people to move towards a better and brighter future. However, there are still people who live pessimistically, plunge into work, into "illusory dreams" but miss many good values ​​of life; There are many selfish people who only know themselves and do not appreciate what they have. These people deserve criticism. It can be seen that appreciating life is a core factor to help people live better; Therefore, each of us needs to know how to appreciate the present life and rise to create a beautiful future.
Each person only lives once, in order not to live a wasteful life, each of us must appreciate life every day. Time passed cannot be regained, the things missed in the past will forever be regrets in the present and the future. We cannot pity to see the good things fade through our fingers without knowing how to grasp and appreciate them. Appreciating the present is an extremely important factor, it not only helps us to be proud of ourselves in the future, without regrets, but also a foundation for us to create many other good values ​​to help us in life. , for the society. Appreciating the present helps us connect with people, spread love more, ourselves will feel happier, happier and more fulfilled. People who appreciate life are always optimistic, full of faith and hope, always aiming for good things. We cannot deny the importance of appreciating life, but not every one of us knows how to appreciate our life. Let's learn to love from the smallest things, live for others more, ignore all worries and troubles to look forward to a bright future so that a new and better society will develop.
Each person only lives once, so each of us should appreciate our daily life so that we don't live forever and live in vain. Appreciating life every day means that each person lives fully, works and enjoys the values ​​​​of life, ignoring all troubles and worries, always aiming for good things. Each person has a passion, a different way of appreciating life, some people aim for great things, some people aspire to be simple, but no matter what, if they know how to appreciate their life, then it's better to appreciate their life. One way or another, we will all be happy. Appreciating life every day helps people be more optimistic, fulfill all goals well, but it also helps us to spread love and good messages to society. However, not everyone knows how to appreciate their life, to do that, we first need to set our own goals and passions and try to pursue it, besides spending a lot of time on it. More time for relatives, family, friends, loved ones, together to share joys and sorrows. If we do not know how to appreciate the tribute but keep running after things that are illusory, vain or indifferent to those around us, at some point, we will have to regret the things we have missed. . Only you yourself know where you are and what you need, so cherish your life from today.
Everyone's life is happy or sad every day, it's up to us to choose. It can be commented that life attitude has a direct influence on quality of life. A positive attitude, appreciating life every day will make each day more meaningful.

So what is a positive life attitude, appreciating life every day? A positive attitude to life, appreciating life every day is a feeling of joy, comfort, carefree even when facing difficult or challenging situations or encountering unhappy things in life. A positive life attitude is very important for human life, each person should train himself a positive life attitude to be ready to face life's challenges.

In life, people inevitably stumble and get discouraged, an optimistic spirit will help them stand up and continue to fight and conquer the path they have chosen. Besides, a positive life attitude helps people live more happily, enjoy more beauty of life, and at the same time make life more colorful. People with a positive attitude always know how to make their lives colorful and transmit positive energy to others.

In life, there are many people who live with a positive attitude that surely each of us is known. Those are the patients with cancer but with an optimistic spirit, a positive attitude to live, who have overcome and recovered from the disease without completely relying on medicine.

However, in life, there are still many pessimists who, when faced with difficulties and challenges, do not dare to cope or are always depressed and fall; there are many people who become too optimistic and become indifferent;... these people should be criticized and criticized.

Let's understand that, every day when we open our eyes to see that we are still alive, being dedicated is a very fortunate thing. Therefore, let's live with the most positive attitude possible to do more than other positive things.
A good person is a person who has all the noble qualities and a sharp way of thinking. Being a talented person is inherently difficult, but being a useful person is even harder. To become a useful person, first of all, we need to always appreciate our life. Useful living is a lifestyle with dreams and ambitions, knowing how to rise up in life and being in harmony, loving and helping those around, consciously dedicating to life. A useful person is the one who first knows how to set goals for himself and strives to accomplish those goals. Besides, they are also people who are always ready to help those around them, regardless of their own personal interests. They always think that they will devote their own capacity and intelligence to the cause of developing the country. This righteous, useful life brings us many benefits and good meanings. When we live usefully, we will be loved, respected, studied and followed to make our lives better, positive messages will be transmitted further. Humans are the roots of society and the country, living usefully for society and for the country to develop more and more prosperously. Besides, a negative side we can't help but mention is that in this life there are still people with selfish habits, living only knowing themselves, not trying to rise up, not knowing how to share with others. other, these people, if not modified, will be condemned and criticized by society. Time that passes can't be regained, everyone will leave this world eventually, let's live a full life so that when we look back we can see that we have lived very usefully and have no regrets.
The most obvious thing we can see is that the young animals of a certain species are born with all the morphological features and properties of their parents. Newly born kittens have inherited all the traits of their parents. The color of the hair covering the body is similar to the parent's sharp claws for the habit of catching mice later. Or a group of baby turtles that have just bitten off their eggshells come out to the sea, but why are young animals so weak, how can they swim in that cold water, but the mother nature has given them that ability with two legs like that? two oars can move easily in the water. Those special abilities can only be found in animals living on Earth.

But what about humans? A baby girl or boy has just been born looking plump and lovely, but no one can tell by looking at her who her parents are. The weak body could not cope with the rigors of life outside on its own. Unlike animals, when they open their eyes to see sunlight, they also have to struggle for their lives. There are also species that are cared for by their parents, but over the years they will become independent and may never see their parents again. very different from humans. We humans right from birth, although we don't own anything, we have received so much tender love from our mother and the attentive care of our father... Over time we grow up each and every time. day in that warm embrace.

Life is never so smooth and ironic to many people. Many babies are born without knowing their father's face and not knowing what the sweetness of mother's milk is. But they also grow over the years and become citizens of a country whose future and life are buried deep within four walls of unhappiness and loneliness.

Everyone's birth is nothing and there are unfortunate fates that do not have the right to know the one who gave birth to them. But not because of the oath that the future and the other life became dark and dark. and they have no right to dream or hope. and the bright, successful and glorious future will never be theirs. because all those beautiful dreams are not determined by the circumstances of birth, but by the will and determination of each person.

"As it is, so it will become, and it must be done by its own freedom. I can only become what I make." The latter part of the philosopher's statement is a piece of advice for us. must always know how to rise up in life, must have ambition and ideals, and outline a clear purpose for their own life. Never falter in the face of any difficulty.

Young people today do not just bury their heads in books like their seniors in the previous class. Modern life, science and technology, progress, and daily habits are not encapsulated in the four walls of only learning and studying. Daily time seems to be expanded with a lot of interesting activities. like the green summer campaign. Young people are free to freely go to disadvantaged areas to help poor people in remote areas or go on short trips to simply share gifts and cakes for children in orphaned villages, all of whom are born in Vietnam. out of volunteerism and love for the race. Young people today not only study well, do good work, but also have compassion and tolerance. Those conditions are the foundation for future success. That success they achieved is because their own hands and brains do not rely on anyone......"Aspiration is the source of motivation with boundless and potential strength inside each person. This motivation is expressed through continuous and persistent actions, so that people never give up on their dreams, never give in to circumstances." It's like a quote that people can achieve. When you have ambition, you only really fail when you give up when you dream and try.

But those determined wills do not always smile at everyone and will not find anyone, only those who always try to rise up in life, overcome all difficulties and come to those difficulties. If they don't slow them down, that's when they can find happiness and useful discoveries for themselves. And there are a large number of people who will never discover those truths because pessimism is always weak in the face of difficulties. Failure is the beginning of success and failure is only success when we try our best and constantly improve ourselves.

When a person is born, he is nothing but a new sprout, born just a nameless infant, But with all his unceasing efforts, determination, persistence and will to rise, the germ of life is born. He will grow up and bear fruit and give birth to life. And when they die they have everything even though they are no longer in this world.

"Create! Build! Serve! Those are the commands of nature. Follow them, and you will find that the riches and riches of the universe are boundless." Live your life to the fullest and keep striving you will find it.
The most obvious thing we can see is that the young animals of a certain species are born with all the morphological features and properties of their parents. Newly born kittens have inherited all the traits of their parents. The color of the hair covering the body is similar to the parent's sharp claws for the habit of catching mice later. Or a group of baby turtles that have just bitten off their eggshells come out to the sea, but why are young animals so weak, how can they swim in that cold water, but the mother nature has given them that ability with two legs like that? two oars can move easily in the water. Those special abilities can only be found in animals living on Earth.

But what about humans? A baby girl or boy has just been born looking plump and lovely, but no one can tell by looking at her who her parents are. The weak body could not cope with the rigors of life outside on its own. Unlike animals, when they open their eyes to see sunlight, they also have to struggle for their lives. There are also species that are cared for by their parents, but over the years they will become independent and may never see their parents again. very different from humans. We humans right from birth, although we don't own anything, we have received so much tender love from our mother and the attentive care of our father... Over time we grow up each and every time. day in that warm embrace.

Life is never so smooth and ironic to many people. Many babies are born without knowing their father's face and not knowing what the sweetness of mother's milk is. But they also grow over the years and become citizens of a country whose future and life are buried deep within four walls of unhappiness and loneliness.

Everyone's birth is nothing and there are unfortunate fates that do not have the right to know the one who gave birth to them. But not because of the oath that the future and the other life became dark and dark. and they have no right to dream or hope. and the bright, successful and glorious future will never be theirs. because all those beautiful dreams are not determined by the circumstances of birth, but by the will and determination of each person.

"As it is, so it will become, and it must be done by its own freedom. I can only become what I make." The latter part of the philosopher's statement is a piece of advice for us. must always know how to rise up in life, must have ambition and ideals, and outline a clear purpose for their own life. Never falter in the face of any difficulty.

Young people today do not just bury their heads in books like their seniors in the previous class. Modern life, science and technology, progress, and daily habits are not encapsulated in the four walls of only learning and studying. Daily time seems to be expanded with a lot of interesting activities. like the green summer campaign. Young people are free to freely go to disadvantaged areas to help poor people in remote areas or go on short trips to simply share gifts and cakes for children in orphaned villages, all of whom are born in Vietnam. out of volunteerism and love for the race. Young people today not only study well, do good work, but also have compassion and tolerance. Those conditions are the foundation for future success. That success they achieved is because their own hands and brains do not rely on anyone......"Aspiration is the source of motivation with boundless and potential strength inside each person. This motivation is expressed through continuous and persistent actions, so that people never give up on their dreams, never give in to circumstances." It's like a quote that people can achieve. When you have ambition, you only really fail when you give up when you dream and try.

But those determined wills do not always smile at everyone and will not find anyone, only those who always try to rise up in life, overcome all difficulties and come to those difficulties. If they don't slow them down, that's when they can find happiness and useful discoveries for themselves. And there are a large number of people who will never discover those truths because pessimism is always weak in the face of difficulties. Failure is the beginning of success and failure is only success when we try our best and constantly improve ourselves.

When a person is born, he is nothing but a new sprout, born just a nameless infant, But with all his unceasing efforts, determination, persistence and will to rise, the germ of life is born. He will grow up and bear fruit and give birth to life. And when they die they have everything even though they are no longer in this world.

"Create! Build! Serve! Those are the commands of nature. Follow them, and you will find that the riches and riches of the universe are boundless." Live your life to the fullest and keep striving you will find it.
Personality is formed when we color what we see with eyes that appreciate life, wish to live, not exist superficially. It develops when we understand that what we do is right or wrong, we know how to filter so that the good things in our personality do not fade away and gradually limit the negative aspects. It will be enhanced when we know how to mold those thoughts into right actions. It is difficult to say when the journey of perfecting human personality will stop. Sometimes just a moment of distraction is enough to lead us astray and then it takes a lifetime to find ourselves. The process of forming and developing personality in people requires a lot of energy and effort in themselves. Because only my own feet bring me to personality. You should not expect someone to carry you or wait for a modern means to bring you to personality, nor should there be a shortcut to personalit There is only one way to personality. I just try.
The philosopher's quote actually suggests more than the words themselves. It also encourages people to believe in themselves and requires each person to take responsibility for themselves. The fact that we are responsible for ourselves is not selfish, it is not separating ourselves from the world around us. When we complete our personality, we contribute to making society more and more beautiful.

Self-improvement is a long road, but that doesn't mean it can't be done. Life is in our hands, we decide, so why not make it good? When the door of life opens for us to begin the journey of self-improvement, what are you waiting for, but not ready to take the step to make yourself and life better?.
In today's chaotic, daily life, the society and the country are in need of a force of talented and virtuous young students. Right now, students are considered as future preschools, inheritors of the development of the country who are trying their best to study and practice. But on the other hand, there are some students who are not studying according to their ability, and this has created conditions for a "disease" to enter the school, causing a stir in the education sector. particular and society in general. That is the disease of achievement in education along with the negatives in exams.

Achievement is the measurable outcome of human effort. That result is not just a personal material or spiritual benefit, although most of the factors that create the motivation for people to work harder and better to achieve are their benefits. But people can still do their best for the common good, the benefit of society, and the country.

According to that definition, an individual's or a group's efforts to achieve achievements is a good moral quality, worthy of praise and replication. Imagine a society in which all members strive to achieve higher achievements in the fields of activity: sports, culture, art, education, production, commerce, technology. for the sake of themselves and the whole community. That society is sure to progress, that country's economy is sure to develop, that country's people's life is sure to be rich, that country is sure to prosper. But at some point, when it is the efforts to achieve, a good and necessary quality of each member of society, becomes a disease, which today we call it the achievement disease.

The common concern now is that the achievement disease is spreading in our country's education sector, infecting not only a part of those working in the industry but also many families in society. With the achievement disease, the methods of assessing and checking learning outcomes become dense, heavy, complex but stereotypical, leaving no room for students' creativity. From the point of view of the education sector, educational achievement is a measure of the success in the profession of teachers in particular, of schools and localities in general. Unfortunately, in the past time, it is the education industry that "designs" the above measure with rigid educational criteria. "Educational achievement disease" is the fact that schools and localities try to achieve educational targets at all costs. We are all clearly aware that a society that wants to develop and progress must have many talents, and talents must be those who have real talent to learn, to be able to absorb the knowledge and quintessential ethical qualities of human beings. type and of the nation through the education system of the community. Education is the starting point, the source of energy for the prosperity of a country and an ethnic community. A good and honest upbringing will produce good and honest achievers. Good and honest achievements will create strong strides for the ethnic community on the path of development.
The campaign "Say no to negativity in exams and achievement disease in education" since its launch, has been of great interest to the society, and the people have agreed to respond. Because everyone knows that, if we just let it be ''negativity in exams'' is rampant and ''achievement disease in education'' becomes a ''chronic'' disease, which will lead to a waste of time, energy and life of students. ; waste money and effort to take care of children of parents; of teachers and waste of social wealth. That will be the inevitable consequence of moral degradation in students; ethics in the teacher-student relationship and will contribute to the deterioration of other social relationships. This movement is a tough, fierce struggle. The good news is that the people and society are actively participating in the fight against the negatives in exams and achievement diseases in education, and are ready to criticize individuals or organizations that do not respond. A good start signals the success of a deeply humane campaign.

In the process of educational reform, achievement disease must be eliminated. It's not that hard, but it's certainly not easy either. The first thing is to change from the mistakes of the education sector, to resolutely implement the proposed campaign, because that will set an example for today's young generation to believe and follow. Our students, from now on, must strive to study by themselves, absolutely say no to negativity in the exam and at the same time help the school to advise and prevent such negative behaviors.

Our country is moving forward on the path of innovation, opening up, integration and competition with the world for a worthy place on this planet. The upcoming economic struggle is very fierce and has the same nature of victory and death as in the field or in the martial arts.
Trying to use the weapon of time to fight the work every day, working hard from morning to night and then always tired and stuck after each battle for what, would it be more flexible to treat work? in a friendly, gentle way and then slowly control it calmly and scientifically, it is easier to control it. The writer has been very subtle and profound when using the image of a tire to relate to our attitude when approaching work as well as life. “Do you know why tires are better than rolling on the road but can withstand enough crimes: rubbing against the road, leaving on sharp rocks? At first, manufacturers made tough tires. But soon the tire was shattered to pieces.
Then they invented softer tires to make the bumps on the road softer, lighter and these tires "bearable". On the bumpy road of life, you and I, if we learn to make our touches less painful, our journey will also be longer and smoother and happier.
My thoughts are densely written on the page, every time I record each answer, I feel like the burden in my heart seems to be shared gradually with each page. The fact that “clarifying facts, analyzing facts” by collecting it in an “unbiased way”, “acts as if collecting it is not for me but for someone else. That way, I can comment coldly, objectively, and destroy all emotions… In other words, I try to gather enough facts against me, against my will” (p. 63) and then start Starting to analyze them slowly, what I learned from the book and applied in my own practice, has helped me find so many hopes for life, there are still too many beautiful things that I have lost in quite a while.
That is, if jade is not honed, it cannot become a valuable item, just as a person who does not study cannot know reason. That quote shows the importance of learning. And today, to re-define the purpose of learning, UNESCO proposes: "Learning to know, learning to do, learning to live together, learning to assert yourself." Learning is cultivating general knowledge, absorbing good things, new things, creative advancements... is improving professional abilities and other skills, and at the same time perfecting one's personality. . First of all, we "learn to know", to perceive right, wrong, good, bad, and understand the problems. It is true that if we do not learn anything, we ourselves will not have the knowledge to evaluate and correctly identify a problem or problem. What is more important is that after understanding and knowing, we must "do" and apply what we have learned in real life. Only in this way can we know the results of our studies, and through that we also contribute a significant part to the general activities of the society. On the other hand, we also "learn to live together" to create more harmonious, better and warmer human-to-human relationships by absorbing the rules of communication, manners, and subtlety and sensitivity. sharp in each culture. In this way, our lives will become harmonious and useful to the community. More than that, we also "learn to assert ourselves", to prove that we are learning for a clear purpose with the will to strive relentlessly to achieve that goal. It is a long process and requires the learners themselves diligence, hard work, perseverance, and perseverance to the end. Of course, the results of such a process of "learning and doing" will bring many benefits and be worth the effort that we have put in. Thus, the saying of UNESCO affirms that learning is the basic step that provides us with knowledge and guides us to use knowledge for good purposes. UNESCO's quote has opened up two main aspects of learning: firstly, learning must be through the acquisition of theoretical knowledge; The second is learning to apply practice in practice. These two categories always go hand in hand, complement each other and cannot be separated. This is also one of the key steps for one's learning to achieve high results. Thereby creating a solid and capable development foundation in professional work, better personal training, contributing to building a more civilized, modern and progressive society in terms of both "face and face". "and people.

But besides that there are still people who learn for the purpose of dealing, passing through for yes. Therefore, they grasp knowledge superficially, not deeply. These types of people, even if they achieve high academic achievement, are still very difficult to succeed in a sustainable way in the future.

In short, each of us needs to be aware of learning, determine specific and correct goals for ourselves and make unremitting efforts to achieve the goal to create for ourselves strong self-confidence. strong in their own capacity, practice morality and perfect a noble personality.
The ancients have a saying that "No matter how bad the jade is, the person is uneducated and unreasonable", this is a reminder of the role of education for people. Since ancient times, people have attached great importance to education, educated people are people who have a voice in society, respected and trusted by everyone. Today, society is constantly changing and developing, people not only need to be educated, but also have to learn and expand their knowledge to be able to properly perceive the social reality, assert themselves. Determine your own worth and help your life.

The saying "Number of pearls are not successful, people are uneducated and irrational" consists of two terms with complementary meanings, explaining each other. The first part, "The jade is unrepentant and unstoppable", can be understood as a natural gem that is inherently precious, but without going through the process of honing and cutting, it will not be able to show its full beauty and value. . If the pearl does not go through the meticulous and elaborate human hands, suffering the pain under the knife and grinding stone, it will not be possible to create glitter, beautiful and precious jewelry. "Humans are uneducated and irrational", just like a precious jewel, people with natural instincts will still be able to exist in society, but without education, there will be no knowledge. understanding of the logic of life.
The jewel undergoes polishing to be beautiful and precious, just as a person must be educated to become a valuable human being, perfecting his personality and understanding to help us live a meaningful life. beneficial to society. The sentence clearly shows the meaning of learning and the learning process for people. Jade and people are precious things, if jade wants to become precious, it must be honed, and if someone wants to become precious, it must be studied and trained. Talented people are like a precious gem that has gone through many stages of sharpening, they are passionate and diligent in studying non-stop, working hard, learning and absorbing to expand their knowledge. No one is born with inherent intelligence, intelligence, perfect personality, even if they have more natural talents than others, if they don't know how to study, nurture and practice, that talent will gradually fade away. no longer valid.

Our great President Ho Chi Minh once said, "We must study, we must try to learn a lot. If we do not study hard, we will not make progress. No progress is regression. The more society moves forward, the more work we do. The more you have, the more sophisticated the machines. If you don't learn, you'll be backward, and if you're backward, you'll be eliminated. Uncle Ho has clearly affirmed the meaning of learning for each person, his position in society as well as the consequences of not learning. You must learn to expect progress, make progress to keep up with the development of society, must constantly study so as not to fall behind and be eliminated. Just like a student, if you don't study hard, you won't be able to complete your tasks, you won't be able to go to class, if you don't try to study for exams, you won't be able to graduate and go to university. Nowadays, if you do not have a high school diploma, there will be very few companies, enterprises or organizations that can recruit you to work, you will be unemployed or will have to return to farming. This is backwardness and self-exclusion from society.

Each of us are born the same, are all pure natural gems, can become precious, glittering and expensive jewels or not depends on the sense of learning and train our selves. Try to sharpen yourself by constantly studying, practicing and cultivating to become the brightest and most precious gems.
Grandparents used to advise their children and grandchildren: "If you don't know, ask, if you want to be good, you must study". Indeed, in order to expand understanding as well as accumulate valuable knowledge, people always have to go through a process of non-stop learning. You can learn new, interesting and useful things by learning through books, teachers, friends as well as from real life. As long as we always try and have a spirit of curiosity, we will surely answer the things we want to know and moreover understand more about the things we do not know. Thanks to that, I always keep up with the times, with the outstanding development of society. Besides learning to acquire knowledge, we also need to define for ourselves another important learning purpose, which is "learning to do". We can understand "learning to do" here is to apply the knowledge we have learned to life. Or to be more specific, studying for the future, studying so that in the future you can get a job, a stable career so that you can support yourself and dedicate your energy and wisdom to the country... Then what about "learning to live together?" ' is how? As everyone knows, life around us is inherently colorful, diverse and extremely complicated with many relationships. The "study" in this case is understood as learning how to treat people, learn the right things and how to live a beautiful life. Relationships between people go to good, perfect or contradictory, conflict is all for us to decide. If you know how to behave properly with each other, think for each other, and for the collective, each person will feel the happiness of giving and receiving. On the other hand, "learning to live together" is also learning and following ethical and legal standards to become an exemplary citizen, contributing to building a civilized and positive face for the country. Finally, "learn to assert yourself". Who does not want to be respected by everyone, who does not want to achieve high status and achieve success in life. But not wanting is possible, but we have to go through training and study hard. For that reason, each of us must always strive to learn knowledge, try to study well to prove that we are useful people and affirm our own talents. It can be said that the above four factors play a very important role for learning. “Learning to know, learning to do, learning to live together and learning to assert yourself” is the requirement to acquire knowledge and then apply it in practice, in action in life, thereby perfecting your personality and affirming it. define yourself. As students, the first thing we need to do is to try our best to study the culture in order to apply the knowledge we have learned in practice. But it is not enough to study well, but we also have to practice character and morality. There are people who are very talented and successful, but only know themselves without thinking about the collective, never knowing how to help the community or help those with more difficult circumstances than themselves. Thus, they have abandoned their studies to live with society. There are also those who do not know what they study for. They only studied through the speakers, coped with enough points, studied only because they thought their parents forced them, but did not understand that studying was very important for their future. Therefore, each student should always have a sense of learning and be responsible for himself, his family and society. In short, learning is very important not only for individuals but also for society. Therefore, each of us, especially the young generation of the 21st century, should determine for themselves the purpose of learning and strive to do our best to become useful citizens in the future, contributing to building a richer country.
Our nation has a tradition of being studious for thousands of years. In the past, there were many Poinsettias who were poor but still determined to study, sharpen the history, and try to bring their own efforts and knowledge to build the country. Many of them have helped our country maintain its independence and sovereignty. They have established themselves and are honored by history. Today, thousands of students across the country, despite having financial difficulties, still try to go to school because they know that learning is the only way that can change their lives, helping them prove themselves in their lives. society. Even those who already have status and have a lot of success at work still have to learn. They do not necessarily go to school, but they are self-aware of the importance of learning in their life, work, and career. Once, a newspaper published an article about Vietnamese language classes in Germany, about learning Vietnamese, Vietnamese culture of Germans preparing to go to Vietnam. No one asked them to do so, but they knew it was essential to their life in a new country with a culture that was vastly different from German culture. Learning has such great meaning, but not everyone grasps the purpose of learning. There are students who are lazy, depressed, neglect studying; there are friends who study through the air, not seriously in the hope of passing the tests without paying attention to the actual learning. So, how can you grasp the necessary knowledge for the future? Then, how will you cope with life's challenges if you don't have a solid knowledge base? There are also students who study very hard, always spending time studying but forgetting time for the outside world. Perhaps you forget that the world always contains unexpected lessons that books can never teach you. And it is that world where you practice and experience the knowledge you learn. Studying is very important, but how to study as well as how to arrange and balance time between studying and relaxing is also very important. If we don't know the right learning method, even though we learn a lot, we won't absorb much, and if we can't balance our time, we will be overloaded, which leads to boredom and finally lazy to study. A small game, a favorite music or a movie will help us dispel stress, prepare to absorb new knowledge. “Learning to know, learning to do, learning to live together, learning to assert yourself” is a right thing, and this proposition makes even more sense when people are more and more developed and progressed. and the horizon of knowledge is getting wider. In the future, when the whole world has moved to a knowledge economy, knowledge will be the key factor to gain a foothold in society. If we don't want to be left behind humanity, we have only one way to study. Learn to be able to go out into the world, "comparing with the great powers of the five continents" with an attitude of pride, not inferiority and timidity.
At first reading, we will find the above statement a bit confusing. What is "ideal"? That is the goal of life that every person aspires to achieve. As for "lamp", it is an object used to light up at night, thanks to it, we can clearly see the way and surrounding objects. The "steady direction" is the goal, the definite path that will be implemented determinedly and unchanged. "Life" is the practical life of each person, but it will be a meaningful life, a beautiful life when people live, not exist. That life is the brilliant fruit of an ideal life. Thereby, we see that Lep Ton-stoi's sentence has a very clear meaning: to live in this world, each person needs to have his or her own ideal of life, which is the clearest guiding light. “Ideas” are very important to us. Because if we live without an ideal, it will be difficult for us to determine what should be done, and if we can determine it, we will not have the determination to perform until the place. As in learning, if we are not sure what the goal of learning is to do, when we encounter difficulties, it is easy to give up and not try. In addition, the possibility of doing it the wrong way or feeling more difficult when not defining the ideal is very large. For example, if we want to become a doctor but do not know what kind of doctor we will become, then when we embark on an educational path, we will feel lost with our own goals. And how boring life will be when people live without "ideal". Without ideals, we are easily discouraged, we easily feel bored with our own life. So what is a person with ideals like? That is the person who always clearly defines his life goals and is dedicated to the things he needs to complete, clearly shows his attitude of determination to reach for personal perfection, the desire to devote to the common cause. More than that, it is a person who is willing to sacrifice for his ideals, accept failures and difficulties to reach the ultimate goal of life. Sometimes a person's ideal is just to get a stable job and have a warm family, but to achieve it, that person also has to go through many difficulties. And even if it is just a seemingly simple ideal, it still deserves respect from those around. Because that person has had his own ideal to fulfill, unlike many people who have lived more than half of their life, still do not know what their ideal is and are still hanging around… On June 5, 1911, the young Nguyen Tat Thanh passed away with a lifelong ideal of "finding a way to liberate the country, determined for an independent Fatherland, for a free and sustainable Vietnamese nation". That is also the ideal of all young men in wartime. But today, when our country is completely independent and is on the verge of rapid development, the ideals of young people have changed a lot. Of course, each young person will have his or her own ideal, depending on the living situation, status and lifestyle of each person, but if that ideal only serves their own interests, it is not entirely reasonable. thinking that it is selfish and personal way of thinking. Therefore, today's young people need to have a common ideal: constantly striving for a Vietnam "rich people, strong country, fair, democratic and civilized society". But in order to have meaningful ideals for themselves and for the society like that, each person, especially young students, right from the moment they sit in school, has determined for themselves the purpose of learning, analyzing distinguish whether that purpose is right or wrong and determine whether one's ability can be achieved or not. Besides, it is necessary to listen to the advice of those around you such as parents and teachers to have a "steadfast direction" for yourself. A society will develop sustainably when there are people who share a noble ideal of living for the Fatherland, for everyone.

Lep Tonstoy's words have left many deep and humanistic meanings when he emphasized the importance of ideals for each person by comparing ideals with a steady direction and life. Life is more and more different, each of us needs to have an ideal to fulfill in life, me too, I will always strive to fulfill my ideal: becoming a useful citizen for society , to contribute to the common cause of the nation. Let each day pass, there will be a new day illuminated by the ideal of life.
Spring is the most beautiful season of the year, youth's youth is like spring. The most beautiful age in every life. Youth is the age with the biggest dreams, plans and ambitions. To be able to fulfill those ambitions well, those young people need to have a purpose to live an ideal life. So what is the ideal life of today's youth?

Do you know why we live in an independent country today? Why can a small country like us defeat a powerful foreign invader? That is thanks to the ideals of our ancestors in the past. In the cause of anti-foreign aggression and defense of the Fatherland, millions of young people have gone to war, bravely fighting, sacrificing their best youth life, making important contributions to the whole nation to defeat the two enemies. The powerful enemies of the times were the French colonialists and the American imperialists, bringing independence and freedom to the Fatherland. They had beautiful ideals, they fought and sacrificed for their beloved country. So, living in this peaceful independent country, what should we do to follow in the footsteps of our forefathers with the mission of building Vietnam into a powerful nation? this noble and sacred because they are the owners, the future, the "spring" of the nation. Young people must live with ideals. In order to realize that ideal, each young person needs to be equipped with a solid baggage to enter life by studying and living ethically. But looking directly at the current reality, when our country is in danger of economic backwardness, social evils are increasing day by day, young people have not fully demonstrated their roles and responsibilities before the mission. of the country. But then there are many young people today who only know how to live for themselves, who have a loose lifestyle, living day to day. They falter in the face of difficulties, shake their heads in the face of challenges, and live irresponsibly to society. For one thing, they still feel guilty about their homeland. This reprehensible attitude manifests in people living in exile, living only for money, always bringing their interests to the table for comparison and calculation. Protect your rights, that's right, but don't seem to be too self-centered to underestimate the community. It is a selfish way of life. 'Living' - It's just a simple word but it contains so many things. What to live for and how to live. It depends on the choice of each of us. For today's youth to become the mainstay of the country not only in the present but also in the future, the vital issue is that young people must define an ideal for themselves; after having determined to strive to realize that ideal. Only then will Vietnamese youth be able to fulfill the mission assigned to them by the country and hold their heads high to the youth of the world. Each young person will have his or her own conception of an ideal, depending on the circumstances, qualifications, and ideals that are consistent with the general trend of the majority of young people, and bring benefits to that nation. the ideal. People always aspire towards the great, that is, towards the truth, those who live and strive towards the great are often called idealists. Thus, truth is not only the headlamp but also the goal of the ideal. In the renovation process of the country, especially the period of world economic integration, young people are the high-quality human resources who quickly grasp modern science and technology in all fields to develop the country. Vietnamese youth have shown many advantages such as intelligence, industriousness, hard work, eager to learn, quick to absorb new things... Many young people have shown a noble lifestyle, fanning the fire for the community. copper and do not accept poverty. Volunteer summers have attracted thousands of young intellectuals to volunteer to go to the countryside and mountainous areas. Many big projects are undertaken by young people... Inheriting Ho Chi Minh's teachings on ideals for young people, combined with today's realities of the country, young people can build a truth for themselves. - An ideal: Constantly striving to build Vietnam into a country "Rich people, strong country, fair, democratic and civilized society". Of course, this great cause belongs to the whole nation, but young people play an important role, because this cause is not achieved overnight; It takes time, short or long depending on our efforts. Youth is the class of young people who will take over and make this career a reality. Like the saying "The spirit of youth is a strange gem that can heat iron into gold"

As a young man in the 20th century with today's integration, with great ideals and ambitions, let's try our best to study and live ethically. To really be a useful person in this society. We all live with aspiration, ambition and dedication to it. 'The most precious thing of a human being is life, life is only lived once, one must live it so that there is no need to feel pity or regret for the wasted years, so as not to be ashamed of the years of living forever.
At first glance, everyone must have thought this is very simple, very easy to understand. “Water” is a very precious thing, without water, people and plants will be destroyed, without life. “Source” is where the water comes from, but that is just the literal meaning of the proverb. Besides, there is still a deep meaning in the proverb that is gratitude. "Water" is the result that his father has built. Therefore, when inheriting that achievement, we must remember the people who created it, and at the same time must know how to preserve it, cherish it, and not waste it. On the other hand, we have a duty to promote this good moral quality and pass it on to the following juniors.
With the above explanations, surely you and I can understand what is "when drinking water, remember the source" and why when "drinking water" we must "remember the source". thing that this is a right moral and everyone should follow it. In nature and society, nothing is without origin. In life, there is no fruit that is not created by hard work. Therefore, in the history of Vietnam, there have been two extremely arduous wars of resistance against the French and the Americans, many people have sacrificed their youth, personal happiness and more, some have had to sacrifice their lives. They fought with a tenacious and heroic will to hope that the country would soon be unified and independent. Today, our country has achieved many things. that and growing up, integrating with the world. That's thanks to the merits of his father, his predecessors, we are juniors, the generations that follow should inherited the achievements that his father created. Therefore, we must remember those who have produced our results. We have to know how to give a worthy return, which is an indispensable duty that each of us must perform. For example: Every year, our state often builds houses of gratitude for heroic Vietnamese mothers, provides capital for war invalids and martyrs and creates conditions for them to do business to improve their lives. That's just a fraction of what we can do compared to what his father did. In addition, gratitude helps us to stick with our predecessors, with the collective. thereby forming a friendly and united society. At school, students together raise money to help build houses of love or increase gifts for families of war invalids and martyrs, and in each neighborhood, ward, every small family does the same. So... showing the solidarity of a friendly society. Without gratitude, people will become selfish, easily degenerate and become parasites of family and society. Because without gratitude, we will not appreciate the work of others and will use it wastefully.

To do a good job remembering the source, we must first be proud of the nation's traditions and culture, have a sense of preserving the cultural identity of our homeland, and use the fruits of our labor sparingly. We must know how to selectively absorb the quintessence of humanity in order to enrich our country's traditions. For our part, we have to study seriously so that in the future we can create results for ourselves and for the society, which is a concrete expression of gratitude.

Through this proverb, we have learned a specific lesson for ourselves: "When drinking water, remember the source" first of all, remembering the work, birth and upbringing of the teachers, the care and help of people around. , the merits of the previous generations. We must live to the fullest, with full meaning, to appreciate and preserve the results that we enjoy. Let's study and work to be worthy of human morality and national tradition.
Each country has a distinct cultural identity, which is a precious cultural value that we need to preserve. However, in the current globalized society, the question of how to preserve the traditional cultural identity of the nation is a big question that forces everyone to think. So how to integrate, not dissolve, how to absorb the beauty in the cultural traditions of other countries and spread our culture with other countries in the world? To answer this question, we will find out together below.

First of all, we need to understand the concept of national tradition, so what is a tradition, why do we need to preserve it? First, traditions are the beautiful features in the culture of each country, it is a distinctive feature of each nation that is formed and confirmed over time, passed down from generation to generation. Every nation has good traditions and our Vietnamese people are no exception. Surely you have heard the story about the arduous journey of the Vietnamese people to preserve the national identity, our ancestors spent countless efforts and efforts to not be assimilated by the enemy. . Everyone knows that in the 4,000-year history of building and defending the country, the nation has had to struggle and endure a lot of pain. Our people's lives have become miserable because of the exploitation of the enemy, they don't let our people learn letters, force our people to learn their language, force our people to do all kinds of things just to serve the purpose of assimilation. We lose our voice and our identity. However, overcoming thousands of pain, storms and storms can not make people give up their identity, one person passes on to another and in the end those efforts are rewarded and our nation still retains its voice, still retains its inherent traditional beauty.

The Vietnamese people have many precious traditions, including the tradition of remembering the source when drinking water, remembering who planted the tree when eating fruit, the tradition of respecting the teacher, etc. people. This person still transmits to the other's ears one after another, transmitting to each other the basic principles of being human. We are born and raised, raised in an environment filled with love, parents teach us how to live right, how to be right, teach us courtesy, teach us how to be a better person . Coming to class, we were taught about the heroic history of the nation, their energy and enthusiasm reminded us to strive to preserve our traditions and national identity, and to constantly learn to contribute successfully. build for the country.
However, not everyone can minimize the value of tradition or there are people who understand but do not know how to appreciate it. Since we are living in peacetime, we don't have to struggle and our lives are protected by our parents so we don't know the value of life. Many of us love the westernized lifestyle, like to dress up, like the style and then turn ourselves into parrots imitating the culture of other countries. Whether unintentionally or not, somehow we have been spreading the culture of another country into our country and losing the fine customs and traditions of the nation. The old Vietnamese girl was a beauty in a discreet ao dai, a gentle beauty, but today Vietnamese women have adopted the "open" lifestyle of the West. Many young people dress too revealingly and then do not know how to choose the right clothes for the situation, just because of a few westernized fads, Vietnamese people gradually lose their national identity.

In the past, Vietnamese people used to be proud of their polite and elegant way of speaking, but now the way young people speak and behave is really disappointing. Many young people speak profanity, prefer to use slang to communicate with people, they do not know politeness in public places, do not know how to help people in difficulty, but on the contrary, denigrate and scorn the bodies. poverty.

In order to preserve the national tradition, it is necessary to understand the history of the country, but at the present time, there are few young people who know about the history of the country. Many of you criticize history for being so dry and difficult to learn, why do other countries' history understand so thoroughly, every day instead of studying the history of their home country to instill the loss and sacrifice of the previous generation? then they immerse themselves in Chinese historical dramas and then Korean historical dramas. They eat and sleep with foreign history but Vietnamese history is completely obscure, which is really sad.
The tradition of the nation is to drink water to remember the source, but now there are many young people who argue with their parents, even one sister is ungrateful and kicks her elderly parents out of the street. They brush off the parenting efforts of their parents and mistreat their parents, the parents are powerless to do anything about their difficult-to-teach child, and then tear up in tears and only blame themselves for not being able to teach. child. But in all of us, we all know that this is not their fault at all, the mistake is only in the ignorant playful children who have integrated and dissolved their human personality.

In today's integration era, how to preserve traditions is a top concern of the authorities and of everyone, so we need to change the teaching method to introduce the new generation. Children are more interested in the history of their home country. Only when we have a good understanding of the history of our country can we appreciate the efforts of our forefathers who have constantly built, preserved and valued the nation's culture. Educate children about the importance of national traditions and give them real-life experiences to better understand the good traditions of the nation. For the younger generation, who are self-aware of the problem, it is necessary to jointly propagate and have new forms to make them interested in the beauty of the national tradition, making them passionate about the beauty. It is also a solution for preserving national traditions. Let's all work together to preserve the precious traditional values ​​that our forefathers have sacrificed their sweat and effort to preserve.

Being born in a time of peace and enjoying a full life makes me feel very grateful. And to repay that gratitude, I will try to study and train well to be talented in serving the country. Not only that, I feel that I also have a responsibility to preserve the traditional cultural values ​​of the nation, which is the duty of all citizens living on this S-shaped strip of land.
In daily life, each person chooses for himself different ways of expression, forming different ways of life: living a beautiful life, living a useful life and a selfish lifestyle, letting go and even sinking into sin. Thus, "beautiful living" is a positive lifestyle that everyone needs to aim for, but how to live is the "beautiful life", which is still a concern of many people.

“Beauty” is not just a formal beauty. The "beauty" is expressed from the smallest acts of behavior in life to the strength to rise up in each person. "Beautiful living" must first of all come from compassion, from the love in the heart from which to live wholeheartedly for others, to be tolerant, to forgive... Starting from love, anyone Even the smallest action is full of care and sharing among people. One morning when you go to school, you are not afraid to be late for school but stop to help an old man cross the street. Every day save money to support the fund "For the poor". These actions, though small, are all noble gestures.

Recalling more than 30 years ago, Hanoi's daughter Dang Thuy Tram volunteered on the battlefield of Quang Tri and suffered hardships, but she still had a great love for those around her. Helpless before an operation, she was in pain and worried about her adopted brother, who was now burdened with mourning, she couldn't sleep at night. All of that comes from the love in her heart! It is from these worries and pains that the Vietnamese people have a heroic, resilient and devoted son. That was 30 years ago, and now there are so many people who kindle the fire of love in this world day and night. An old teacher rides his bicycle around every day selling pictures of the Sword Lake Turtle that he accidentally took to collect money to contribute to the fund "For the poor". How many benefactors, how many people each year, remember to remember those who are still in poverty. The colorful life creates thousands of different human faces: there are good people, bad people, there are people who have committed crimes. But no one has never made a mistake. Even if you go astray and enter a dead end, you can still turn around. We are always waiting with open arms for a new person in those who have sinned. On every big holiday, not only the people outside the prison's iron frame are eagerly waiting, but the people inside are also happy because on each occasion they have the opportunity to be pardoned, to return to their relatives and friends. Welcoming them with tolerance and forgiveness, believing in a change in them is also a "beautiful life". It is through love that many people find themselves again. There is a poet with the pseudonym "Hoan Luong" who spent half his life working as a bandit general on the Da Nang - Nha Trang trains, as a cunning smuggling giant, that poet's name was "Nguyen Duc Tan" (Dong My - Thanh Hoa). Tri - Hanoi).
Relationship with the subject The basic principles of Marxism - Leninism and the subject
study the Revolutionary Way of the Communist Party of Vietnam
The subject of Ho Chi Minh Thought has a close relationship with Ho Chi Minh's studies and sciences
social and humanities, especially with the subject of political theory.
a. Relationship with the subject Basic principles of Marxism-Leninism
Marxism-Leninism is the basis of worldview, methodology, ideological origin, and theory
directly determines
rich in his wisdom
with the intellectual capital of the times, East and West, both absorbing and selecting from the heights of human intellectuals
the kind that thinks, chooses, inherits and innovates, uses and develops.
- Marxism-Leninism
Marxism-Leninism is the basis of the worldview and methodology of Ho Chi Minh's thought
Bright.
The assimilation of Marxism-Leninism in Ho Chi Minh took place on the basis of the
quintessential cultural knowledge is distilled, absorbed, and a political capital
humble, simple, inquisitive, sensitive to new things, dialectical, intelligent
Practice. Therefore, Ho Chi Minh discovered the theory of colonial revolution in the colonial era
on that basis, to build a comprehensive, profound and creative system of views on how to
Vietnamese revolution, persisting in the truth and making right and creative decisions to bring about the revolution
to victory.
Ho Chi Minh's personal qualities are also reflected in his hard work and study to conquer
the pinnacle of
other octopus. From the love of his compatriots, Ho Chi Minh
Minh sympathizes with people in the same situation all over the world. In Him was born the idea
awareness of the need to unite the oppressed to fight for their aspirations and

14
common interests. This can be seen as the first manifestation of the sense of international solidarity among the nations
colonial peoples to escape the yoke of imperialism.
With passionate patriotism, Ho Chi Minh patiently endured all difficulties and hardshi
c into the common battle line of the nation.
In order for a revolution to succeed, it must first have a leadership party. The party must follow the leader
Marxism-Leninism and must have a contingent of cadres ready to sacrifice and fight for the ideals of
The Party, for the sake and survival of the nation, for the ideal of liberating the working class and humanity
type.
Revolution is the cause of the masses, not the work of a few
people, therefore, it is necessary to gather, enlighten and gradua
n the world, including Vietnam
Male. The manifesto states: 'All the peoples of the world are created equal

17
also has the right to life, the right to happiness and the right to freedom", "Vietnam has the right to enjoy freedom".
and independent, and in fact became a free and independent country. The entire Vietnamese nation is determined to bring it all
both spirit and force, life and property to maintain that freedom and independence".
The Declaration of Independence is a historical document 
favor
in the country.
Stemming from reality, during the process of leading our country's revolution, Ho Chi Minh's thought
Minh on many issues has continued to be supplemented and developed, forming a system of
theoretical point of view on the Vietnamese revolution, that is: the ideology of socialism and the way
transition to socialism; ideology of the state of the people, by the people, for the people; thought and war
person profile; ideology on the Communist Party and Party building as the rul
Phước Nguyễn Bá01:55
of national independence in the process of ascending to communism
society, about the self-mobilization of the liberation struggle of the people of the countries under the
locality and dependence, on the relationship between the colonial national liberation revolution and the non-colonial revolution
property in the country, about the possibility that the revolution to liberate the colonial peoples broke out and won
before the national proletarian revolution.
From theoretical research, applied to 
from objective needs
of the Vietnamese nation, the characteristics of the times, he paid attention to the colonies, outlined
the essence of the national problem in the colony was the problem of fighting against colonialism, eradicating
foreign domination, oppression and exploitation, national liberation, national independence,
exercise the right of the nation to self-determination and establish an independent nation-state.
Ho Chi Minh wrote many works such as: Colonial heart, Equality, Abyss of 
Even the Truong Son Mountains must be resolute
gain independence”.
The August Revolution was successful, and he read the Declaration on behalf of the provisional government
independence, solemnly affirming before the whole world:
“Vietnam has the right to enjoy freedom and independence, and in fact has become a free country,
independence. The entire Vietnamese nation is determined to give all its spirit and strength, life and wealth
to maintain that right to freedom and independence”.

24
In Ho 
There is a unified connection between democracy and class
level, national and international, national independence and socialism.
In 1960, he said: "Only socialism and communism can liberate"
free the oppressed peoples and laborers of the world from slavery”.
Ho Chi Minh's thought has just reflected the objective law of the cause of people's liberation
race in the era of imperialism, both reflecting the close relationship between the goal of
national liberation with the goal of class liberation 
c.
The object of the colonial revolution was not the native bourgeoisie, much less
not the landlord class in general, but colonialism and reactionary minions.
Social revolution is the overthrow of the existing domination and the establishment of a new social regime. Way
The revolution in the colony must first "overthrow the yoke of imperialism", not
revolution abolished private property, exploitation in general.
Ho Chi Minh always clearly distinguished the invaders from the people of capitalist 
p "liberating nation", then the Indochinese revolution in
The current stage is the national revolution for liberation". Conference to continue adjournment
slogan "land revolution", only redistribution of public land and land "confiscation of Viet crooks".
treason" for the poor peasants, that is, the land is in the hands of the enemies of the nation, not
not of the landlord class in general, in order to fight against the enemies of the nation both politically and
economy.
Victory of the August Re
The work of Revolutionary Road, he affirmed: First of all, there must be a revolutionary party.
I heard the chemistry teacher tell a story about his old student. He is a diligent student, studying well, always in the top group. But in the important university exam, he failed the impossible thing happened. Grief, disappointment about self-correction, the life of an 18-year-old young man at that time was only black when many promises for the future, family and teachers' expectations all collapsed. Refusing to lock himself in the dark, he lit the candle of faith himself and continued to study hard. He passed the following year with a high score. Although compared to his friends, he is the last to come, but he is the one who achieves the biggest victory: Overcoming yourself, life with its boundaries always surrounds you. If you don't have the will, how can you go all the way on your own? From number 1 to number 0 is only a few inches away, but the distance from number 0 to number 1 on the life axis is a process that without faith and energy, you will forever be just zero. Be a pedestrian with supple legs ready to push through all the thorns to walk: "Every step of the way is covered with roses, and the feet are also filled with countless thorns". Lyrics of the band. I love it in my ears. Feet may bleed from the thorns but don't sit down and groan, let the blood soak up the crimson rose petals on your glorious path! is that you are "living beautifully", living and always keeping yourself a belief in tomorrow, always having an energy to rise towards the sun.
There is a concept of life that writer Luu Quang Vu gave us in the play Truong Ba's Soul, the butcher's skin: "It is impossible to be inside one thing, outside another. I want to be whole me. "So what is Luu Quang Vu's actual sentence like? What is the concept of life that you want to give? The concept of life that the writer wants to talk about is to live honestly with yourself, to live so that your mind and body are a unity. "Inside, outside" here is the inside of the soul, in terms of spirit. On the outside are behaviors, physically. "One side, another" indicates the opposite. Inside is one thing, outside is another, indicating the contradiction between mind and body. Wholeness is complete wholeness, a common unity.

Therefore, the first thing that Quang Vu wants to pose here is: People always need a common unity between inside and outside. Indeed, it is something that is really important to each of us because man is a unified entity between the two sides of mind and body. If that unity is gone, we are no longer who we are. A simple example would be if we are a determined person but act contrary to our determination, then we are no longer the determined person we want to be. The second thing that the writer wants to say is: People have to live true to themselves. But to be true to yourself is what comes from the heart, understand what you need and be yourself. If you don't live with yourself, people will suffer and will cause suffering and disaster to others. Because then we are deceiving ourselves, deceiving others. And then that deception will make themselves tormented and miserable, people will see that person as another person, not themselves. For example, there is someone with a very gentle and kind exterior, but inside is cruel, thinking about harmful things to others based on his appearance, then that person has caused the harm. suffering and harm to others.

So let's live to the fullest, between thoughts and actions, between inside and outside, there is always unity. Look around us, people who know how to live honestly with themselves, they always feel happy. They have thoughts and actions that always have a unity. At that time, they were already themselves in the eyes of others. Like when we hate someone, we just say hate. It's not that the inside hates the outside, but we show that we love that person, do things that we don't like to show our love. But besides that, there are people who do not take themselves seriously, always doing things contrary to themselves to achieve their goals. So let's do what we as humans want without harming others, let's see what we have.

Be honest with yourself, don't deceive yourself and those around you. The important thing is to be yourself in all situations, live to the fullest and let the unity between the mind and body of each person always prevail. All of these things also contribute to creating miracles for us, because “Each of us is a miracle.
When I was a child, I didn't have a shirt, I didn't have any fun studying, oh my pain... "No one wants to be unhappy, no one wants to be a street child. Yes, you are all human like us but you are less fortunate than us. I really want to go back to my home, I wish my mother would tell me a story. Longing to be spanked, then cuddled. But they did not have the right to choose what their future would be, where they would go.

At some point, we stopped, nestled in a corner to look around… we were startled to see that there were still so many unfortunate lives there. The children are wandering, abandoned right from the first days of their lives, their childhood days are not as peaceful as many children with a father, mother, family... on the road. make a living, struggling with many pitfalls, bad and evil, they are not only sweat but also tears and pain in body as well as soul. Fortunately, besides the children, there are still many individuals, families, and organizations that accept wandering and orphaned children to loving shelters to protect and protect. help them learn and practice, rise to a healthier and better life.

Their bodies and souls are always deeply scarred, with resentment towards life, circumstances and even fate. The pain mixed with the hardships in living life brought the children together to form a group of "evils" in a wounded mood. Only they can understand the pain in their hearts at any time, ready to boil violently with no way out, and then they are abused and become henchmen for unscrupulous people who consider money above the price. treat people. Their plight is dire. Only a few Vietnamese children are raised and cared for in state institutions, while many others have to fend for themselves to earn a living. Some are forced to work, while others live on the streets - a situation that puts them at high risk of HIV infection, drug use and involvement in crime. and prostitution. It's a pity that mothers and fathers can callously abandon children from birth, worse than that, they raise them to grow up and then treat them like a tool to make money, even show them how much mental pain they bring, besides the heartless, indifferent people who don't care about their miserable lives. Sadly humans have no hearts. “Whether selling newspapers, lottery tickets, polishing shoes or selling knock-on noodles…, street children are always treated like “slaves” of the street. Those meager coins are not easy to earn, having to "sweat boiling tears" and even bloodshed. That is the most common characteristic of children wandering on the street,” said Mr. Hung, from Thao Dan Open House.

But besides that, thank God for giving them people who don't care about difficulties and hardships, come and bring them to shelters, open houses, families and more. is to bring you love among fellow human beings. If in 2001 there were over 30,000 street children in the whole country, now there are about 8,000 children left. From the campaign to bring street children back to their families, the number of street children in recent years has decreased a lot. Numbers are nothing compared to the love they have for you.

The current situation of homeless children is an issue we need to pay special attention to, because today's young generation are talents for society, the seed to build a developed economy. Just think if a country without children exists, only adults exist, sooner or later that country will perish. I say this to let you know how to care for those less fortunate than me!

As a young person, a young man living an ideal life, I hope you, people who have the same luck as me, the luck of having a father, mother, home, family, people who are educated. Practice having fun with full joy, try your best to study for yourself, your family and for the society, besides, let's pay more attention to the lives around us, do the jobs that a People with hearts and compassion should do it for you... Don't stay away from them, but extend your arms to protect them, friends.
Children are like buds on a branch, we often liken them to be like that. Children are the young shoots of the country, they are nurtured and grown up in the love of their parents and the guidance of their teachers. However, somewhere, when walking on the road, we will easily meet children wandering, making a very hard living in the sweltering sun of the summer noon or the heavy rain. That is also the reason that many individuals, families, and organizations have recruited street children, orphaned, making a living in cities and towns, into shelters to raise them to help them study, practice, rise to a healthy, good life.

So, why are there wandering children? Street children have many causes, but the main reason that brings children to life early is the family situation of parents' divorce, orphanage, living with stepmother or stepfather, and difficult family economic conditions. , the family's young management is loose or too strict; Not only that, the parent's improper education of children, even abusive behavior also makes children have poor moral awareness, want to leave the family... Dissatisfied with their situation, but not With timely attention and education, as a natural reflex, they find a way to run away from home, wandering with the life that they think is the way to escape. Born early, without awareness of life, unable to work to support themselves, they only have the way to steal, pickpocket... For those who are a little older, have health, go to work as hired laborers. , employed but also easy to be lured by bad people into the path of crime and addiction. Moreover, these street children often live in gangs, do unhealthy activities, spend lavishly with illicit money… A survey shows that street children: 16% are orphans , without shelter; 75% due to poverty; 9% due to compulsion and due to family discord, which is not a small number. Therefore, the gathering of street children in foster homes is very necessary and really important.

Loving shelters are loving homes that have opened their arms to welcome children. Currently, in our country, many homes are being built and established such as: Hong An's home, Nhan Nghia's Brotherhood's home, etc. It is the kind hearts that have patted the hearts, the unfortunate fates, brought the that child gets out of a miserable situation, creates better conditions for them to study and live a good life, that is humane. . Ms. Vu Ngoc Oanh, deputy director of the program to take care of children away from their mother, she has raised many wandering children from infancy to adulthood, married and have a happy new life. Starting from the newspaper "far from her mother", she received the newspapers to sell to the children, the profits were used for living expenses and she gradually molded them into a collective order. Later, she decided to set up a Program to take care of and educate children away from their mothers, at this time, children no longer had to sell newspapers but were raised by their grandmothers to eat and study. Young children learn to read, adults learn trades. Now she is the mother of so many street children, living in the happiness of seeing them grow up and live the good life. Just like Ms. Oanh, Mr. Nguyen Quoc The, a former prisoner of France, when he saw children wandering on the street, he had the will to help them go to school. Building a small classroom, he went all the streets and nooks and crannies of the city to encourage the children to come to class. In addition, he also mobilized sponsors to have more books, pens, and even "study encouragement meals" to facilitate the children's attendance at school. To date, his class has attracted many wandering children, and has also raised many talented children.
Children wander for many reasons, but the most important reason is the irresponsible parents. If you have given birth to them, you must try by all means to take care of them, although in terms of economic deprivation, you must at least have love and happiness. So the people most to blame are still those careless parents. The second person to blame is those who are indifferent, cold and have a disdainful attitude towards street children. If we have lived in happiness, we must know how to share happiness with everyone, otherwise we will become selfish and that is the kind of person that society despises. The last to blame are those who use children wandering as a commodity, a toy to bring them profit.

As a young person living in happiness, we must have a positive attitude to prevent these wrongdoings, and at the same time join hands to help them return to a beautiful life. Joining a volunteer group is practical work. Reach out to understand the difficult and arduous life, empathize and share the joys and sorrows with the children; Let's remove the distances and barriers that connect millions of hearts together, because we are all born from the same mother. Please dedicate your whole heart to the unfortunate lives.

The issue of street children is a really important issue that needs special attention from many sides, not only each individual but the entire community and nation must join hands to help eliminate the shadow of street children. wandering in the dark, no more pain and unhappiness in the dear country of Vietnam, no more songs "in the night a foot steps, a tiny baby wanders on the street, your eyes are sad and tired, you I'm so sad because I don't know where to go..."

With all the hearts of Vietnamese people, we, the young generations of the country, must join hands to contribute to the construction of a civilized country, must cultivate the party's sprouts, and must show solidarity and tradition. The system of mutual affection that we are so proud of. Helping wandering children study, practice, rise to a healthy and good life is to help the country develop and progress, strengthen national unity, help people have more faith in life, and even help us to improve ourselves. This is a valuable lesson for each individual, and for me, I have learned one thing, "living in the world requires a heart", living not only for myself but also for those around me, living for society. better society.
Entering the 21st century, our country is on the way to integrate with the development of the world with many opportunities and challenges being opened. And we young people - the future owners of the country - must contribute a part to our homeland. That requires us to think and rethink our way of life, and a big question arises: What is the ideal life of today's youth?

First of all, we must understand what "ideal life" is? The ideal of life is a good goal that every human being wants to achieve, is the reason, the goal that each person aspires to achieve. A person with a high life ideal is a person who always thinks and acts to improve himself, to help himself, his family, society and the country. Born into the world, each of us aspires to live a happy life, with that desire prompting us to seek happiness. Moreover, from the bottom of people's hearts, they always wish to have a peaceful and joyful life, without worries and sorrows, without suffering and complaining, wanting to enjoy good fortune rather than unhappiness and wealth. is poor. To achieve that aspiration, people always find themselves a reason for life, or rather an ideal. This ideal will guide their lives through all obstacles and courageously accept all adversities. Because having an ideal to pursue, having a reason to live for life, is the greatest happiness of man.
Have you ever wondered why you exist in life? An easy question, but it makes you start to sit back and think for yourself. Maybe you also have a purpose in life for yourself, but you should still consider whether that purpose is really noble or not. We live in the community to live for everyone, for the motherland, for the country.

Many people have heard the quote in Trinh Cong Son's famous song: "Living in life requires a heart, do you know what?

It took a long time for me and you to realize that the meaning of this sentence is "open your heart to this life, to everyone around you, and don't expect you to get anything in return." What... Share your heart to make this life more beautiful and don't think that what you have given is great, but it is just the smallest things gently... just let the wind blow it away. .. ". It is also part of the ideal of beautiful living.
Our ideal does not need to be big, even just a leaf, but we also need to have a simple ideal like in order to rise. Hai live with ideals! You can leave from many sides, follow different paths, but in the end each person has to choose for themselves the purpose of life. I live for myself, for my relatives, friends and for everyone. Therefore, there is only happiness when "I am for everyone and everyone strives for each person's happiness". It is clear that ideal is the purpose of life, the meaning of each life. Ideals determine success in life. Ideal career guidance, empowering people to achieve career success. Ideal gives us the strength to overcome difficulties and challenges in life.

French writer Dizero once said, “If you don't have a purpose, you can't do anything. You can't do anything great if the purpose is mediocre." That statement, that affirmation was clear. It advises us to live with a purpose, ideals must be beautiful to live meaningfully, to do great things.

In the period of industrialization-modernization, integration of the world economy, modern science and technology, people raise the question of the reason for living life and how to live it worthy? How should we understand living with purpose and high ideals? That is to live to build the country, to live for the society for the advancement of humanity.

Then why should we live with high ideals? Because if "living without purpose can't do anything" and if "mediocre purpose, nothing great can be done". So what do we have to do to become people with a noble purpose and useful to society? First of all, we need to define the right ideal of life - what aspects of the future will contribute to society. Next, we need to make a plan to study, practice skills, health, and thoughts to accomplish that goal. After that, we must actively participate in social and political activities; This will help you integrate into the community. We need to develop our strengths, overcome our weaknesses and apply what we have learned into practice.

Once upon a time, the hero Ly Tu Trong once said: "The path of youth can only be revolutionary and cannot be any other way!" During the war, many young people rushed to the road with one goal - ideally all for the front line, for the country's independence and freedom. That thought has entered the lyrics of many generations of Vietnamese people.
Besides a passionate love of youth, but they have to temporarily put it aside to give it all up for a noble goal. In this day and age, we can hardly find such a beautiful love song. Many generations of young people have fallen for a single ideal of regaining independence and freedom for the country. Until today, when the country is peaceful and on the way of development, the noble living ideal of the youth and the young generation is even wider and broader, for a developed Vietnam.

The young generation are the future owners of the country, the subject of the world, the driving force for the development of society. That is why young people as close as possible have to live with a noble purpose. Remember: "Vietnam's mountains and rivers will become beautiful or not, whether the Vietnamese people can compete with the great powers of the five continents, it's all thanks to your studies" such a sacred message. to be done! Uncle Ho always hoped that the future youth class would not falter in front of the immediate difficulties, always be firm and persistent to overcome challenges to look forward to a better future.
But today, a large part of young people do not think like that. They live indifferently to what's going on around them, living according to the concept: "Wherever you go, you will go there", "When the water reaches your feet, you can jump". Young people today have a lot of time to spend on love, so perhaps they can't realize the happiness they have, but only see the suffering in love, is it possible that today's youth has been answered? If you respond too much physically and mentally, you will gradually become more selfish. Just think for yourself. And the goal of most young people today is to be really successful in life, affirm their position in society; earn a lot of money to be able to satisfy the needs of his own life. While many people are trying to contribute a small part of their efforts to a better society, many people are very indifferent to what is happening for their country. How sad for a country's future!

You always want to be a talented person but you don't have an ideal for yourself, where will your life go? Imagine that: a young man lives with no purpose, no direction, studying only forced by his parents; he was not interested in those options and did not like to study those subjects; then he dropped out of college, became unemployed (no one accepts people without education, even though he's passed his high school years, but with a lack of willpower, he's not qualified for the job)… no having money to pay their parents back (but there are still some good people who don't make these mistakes)… spending money, then all sorts of bad habits and habits. Finally, that young man ended his life in prison or on a hospital bed after years of playing and drinking. It is an example of a person who has no ideals to live by. There are people who live with a purpose but have a trivial purpose such as eating well and warmly, having a happy family, earning a lot of money, marrying a beautiful wife, etc. These people for their own benefit, they easily make friends. with evil and will sin. We often read in police newspapers or on TV news related to men and women holding positions, abusing their power for personal gain; or criminal groups, especially groups of young teenagers robbing, committing crimes... to earn money to play or young people and students (including adults) addicted to playing games to the point of exhaustion! All those who live without purpose and those with mediocre purpose have bad results.
In the midst of countless paths of life, sometimes we will feel precarious, not knowing what we should do, what we live for and which path to choose. To achieve our dreams and reach for success every day people need to have for themselves an ideal of life and be consistent with that ideal, especially the future young generations, the hope of the country.

So what is the ideal? Ideals are life goals that reach the absolute, the beauty in the perception of the future destination, and the human and beautiful values. Living an ideal life is a very positive attitude, which plays a huge role in each person's life. When you live with an ideal, you will realize your own worth, every job you do is associated with the ideal, you will easily plan out orientations for your future plans. When an ideal becomes a life goal, you will be passionate about it, cherish and preserve it, constantly improving yourself every day to build that ideal. When you live with ideals, you will also have a lot of motivation to overcome difficulties and failures in life. The ideal will motivate you to strive, constantly study and practice to realize it, is a great spiritual medicine that motivates you to give your best in everything. Therefore, when you live with an ideal, you will be more successful and assert yourself more. People living with ideals contribute to building a better society. People around will also love and admire you more. When living with ideals is also living towards people, towards community and society, which are loving and empathetic hearts that will be divided between people, helping to bring people closer together.

In literature, we come across the young man's ideal of living with a noble purpose, working in a cold place in Sapa, but still reflecting many good qualities, always keeping his enthusiasm for work, striving for success. for the ideal of serving the people's life, serving the resistance war. Therefore, despite hardships, challenges, loneliness, and hard work, he did not falter, on the contrary, he won many victories in his work in the short story Quietly Sa Pa by Nguyen Thanh Long. Or the adult girls who volunteered to destroy bombs on the Truong Son route to forget themselves for the sake of national liberation and regain independence and freedom for the Fatherland in Le Minh Khue's Distant Stars.

Stepping out into life, that spirit is even more beautiful. During the war for generations, his father died for the ideal of liberating the country. When the country is at peace, generations of descendants still continue those heroic history pages. They are volunteer youth teams with the ideal of loving people as if they were loved ones, not afraid to go to remote mountainous areas, stormy areas, flood water to support and help people. Those are the students, the students who work day and night at the desk, striving for the purpose of becoming successful entrepreneurs, doctors who save lives and help people. Those are young people who make efforts every day in foreign countries, both working part-time to pay tuition fees and going to school, wishing to learn the quintessence of international friends about helping the country develop in the future. All of them contribute to adorn a generation of Vietnamese young people full of bravery, youth, living wholeheartedly for socialist ideals, for their own noble and noble purposes set by themselves.
However, somewhere, there is still a part of young people who are losing themselves, not finding the purpose of life, even being lost, not knowing how to choose the direction for their life. Many young people live aimlessly, each passing day becomes bland, tasteless to the point of boredom, sometimes living just to exist meaninglessly, not finding themselves in life and then making mistakes from one mistake to another. engraved mistake. Even many of you are still indifferent to life, don't care about the world or everything going on around, day by day just want to live virtual and play games, some even fall into social evils such as gambling, ghosts and ghosts. drug.

Our youth generation needs to define for themselves a right and responsible life ideal for that ideal. Must constantly make efforts, study and practice, cultivate their knowledge, improve their moral qualities every day. Must live in harmony with the community, participate in social activities to develop themselves, promote their talents. Each young person must follow the example of the previous generations, live fully for the ideal, contribute to building a more beautiful and fresh life, connect and love each other, stick together, unite, help build the ideal. them of the country, of the nation. The youth generation must pioneer in all fronts, be the solid fulcrum of the country, each young person should be an important factor, live and strive for the most beautiful ideal, overcome difficulties and obstacles. nan to reach the shore of success and happiness.
Career is a necessary topic for every human being when he reaches adulthood and knows how to think. Because profession not only brings material wealth, but it also gives us a firm foothold in the world, helping our lives to be more integrated with society in all times. Each person is born with different abilities and intelligence, leading to different career choices for each person. There are people who want to choose for themselves jobs that have a high salary, work quickly, have a lot of money and there are people who want to choose for themselves a stable and peaceful job. Whatever job you choose, it's not as important as your conscience and work ethic. Each job has a different aspect and importance; We also need to try our best to complete it as fully as possible. As a student, let's set out clear dreams and goals for ourselves, then study hard and practice well to have a stable career in the future and become a useful person for the country. However, in today's life, there is still a small part of young people who live freely in games and then fall into social evils. There are people who choose to work in violation of the law such as trading and possessing stimulants such as drugs, trading in fake goods, non-original goods, etc., causing many bad consequences for their lives. These jobs are not only harmful to the workers themselves, but also to the family and society. We need to consider carefully before choosing a job because it will follow us and provide for us both materially and spiritually throughout our lives.
From birth and growing up, we go through many different stages and processes to perfect and mature. It can be seen that the environment and surrounding influences have great significance for the formation of each person. And the homeland - the place where umbilical cord vegetables are buried has a special role for us.

Homeland is the place where we were born and raised, the land that gives us life will mark our memories since we were born, give us basic awareness about life. Each person has a homeland, each homeland has a different identity that nurtures different human souls. Homeland brings us the most beautiful and memorable experiences and first memories for us to grow up and remember.

When people are born and grow up, they absorb and are influenced by the events and culture of their homeland, thereby forming their personality, thinking and personal thoughts. important role in the formation of man. Homeland is wider than a country, where many different cultures come together in harmony for people to learn, preserve and promote. Wherever you are in this country, it will bring you different precious experiences, nurturing a richer soul. It is a great happiness that we can live in peacetime as the previous generation had to sacrifice, that's why we need to cherish the present life as well as try to improve ourselves, to pay tribute. more devoted to the homeland. As a student, first of all, we need to study well, listen to our parents and be polite to our teachers. Having the right awareness of preserving and defending the homeland. Always know how to love and help those around…

However, in today's society, there are still many people who are not aware of the importance of their homeland and country for themselves and their development. There are also people who have a correct and sufficient awareness of the importance of their homeland for their spiritual life, but do not yet have the sense of building a richer and more beautiful homeland, etc. These people deserve criticism.
In life, we will inevitably encounter difficult times and fall, we need to step through those difficulties and continue on our way because human life is inherently a journey to overcome trials. challenge. In life, every human being will have to go through hardships to grow up and grow up. The saying advises us to be optimistic and strong to step through those challenges to success, to come to the sweet fruit, the effort is always rewarded. People with the spirit of overcoming difficulties and challenges are those who always try to rise up in work and life, encounter difficulties and do not falter, stumble and know how to get up and move on, not giving up. They are always persistent with the goals and dreams that they have set out for themselves. When we overcome challenges, we will come to success, will achieve our goals, achieve what we want. Besides, people who overcome difficulties and challenges will train themselves with other good qualities and be respected and learned by everyone. However. Surely we all know that in life, there are still many people who have new difficulties and challenges, have been discouraged, do not know how to try to rise in their lives, ... these people will hardly have success. in life and was soon eliminated from society. In the face of challenges, each person is given a spiritual choice to overcome. Always keep your optimism, hope and bravery to look forward to good things. No one is perfect, but when we know how to try to perfect ourselves and move forward, we will achieve results worthy of our efforts.
Each person learns a lot of good and right things and also practices many valuable qualities. One of them is kindness. Kindness is an honest heart, a good human quality, always oriented to everyone, ready to help others when in difficulty, ready to share with others. Kind people are those who are willing to help those around them when they are in trouble, ready to help those who are more difficult than themselves. They are also people who live and work disciplined, know how to be polite, love in harmony, aim for and follow positive things. Kind people will spread positive actions and messages to the community. Being kind gives people great meanings. When people help people, society will also develop more beautiful and stronger. Besides, when we help others, we will receive back the respect, trust and love of others and the willingness to help us back when we are in trouble. A father and mother, when living a kind lifestyle, will set an example for his children, for the next generation of young children to follow, thereby laying the foundation for building a kind society. However, in society there are still many people who are selfish, petty, only know themselves without thinking for others, there are people who are insensitive regardless of the pain of their fellow human beings, etc. This person needs to reconsider himself. To live is easy but to live usefully is extremely difficult, therefore, let's live kindly.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow, just like your own work, don't delegate it to others. As a student, self-discipline is extremely important, including the spirit of self-study. Self-study spirit is the sense of self-training, self-improvement, knowledge acquisition and life skills formation. Self-study is an extremely positive self-awareness that everyone needs to practice. People with self-learning spirit are those who always try, study hard, explore new things, never stop learning anytime, anywhere, have a sense of self-discipline, don't let others remind you. about their studies. They are the ones who learn to the end, don't give up halfway, have a system of lessons, draw lessons and experience for themselves from theories and books. Self-study helps us to remember for a long time and apply the knowledge we have learned in a more useful way in life. In addition, self-study also helps people become active, creative, not dependent, not dependent on others. Self-taught people are people who are highly conscious and active in their own lives, these people will go faster to success. Besides good examples of self-study, we need to criticize false ideas. Those are the people who do not see the importance of learning, leading to no active learning spirit. Always dependent, lazy, no will, no energy, study or go there. Self-study is a good thing, let's practice self-study spirit from today to have a brighter future.
Consciousness helps people to have correct and standard actions, not only helps us create material wealth but also helps us train a colorful soul. One of the important consciousnesses that we need to practice is the spirit of self-study. Self-study is an individual's use of his or her time to voluntarily explore, learn, absorb and accumulate useful and beneficial knowledge for life as well as work in many different fields. Self-study helps us to be proactive in finding, absorbing a lot of useful knowledge and being able to draw our own lessons without being dependent on anyone. From there, each of us will become more active in our own lives. In addition, it also helps us to remember knowledge longer, each person will have a different way of synthesizing and selecting knowledge, turning common background knowledge into separate lessons for each person, and when faced with practical cases, there are different handling. Self-study not only helps us gain more knowledge, but also helps us practice perseverance because it is a long process that requires people to work hard to get the desired results. Besides the examples, people with commendable self-study spirit, there are still lazy people who refuse to explore and learn to expand their understanding. There are people who learn halfway, then give up, don't reach the finish line, etc. These people have a hard time achieving success and will soon be eliminated by society. Self-study is a good virtue that not only helps each of us practice to improve our knowledge but also contributes to the development of the whole society. Everyone should try to learn and accumulate for themselves the most useful things possible to develop themselves and make a comprehensive contribution to society.
As society develops, people's intellectual needs are also increasing. To meet the needs of society, each person needs to prepare for himself a solid knowledge base to enter life and the spirit of self-study will be an extremely important factor contributing to that success.

Self-study is the process by which each person voluntarily explores, learns, acquires and accumulates useful and beneficial knowledge for life as well as work based on his or her own ability without asking or relying on whoever. In addition, self-study can also be understood as we rely on the knowledge provided by our teachers or predecessors to form our own lessons based on that.

Self-study helps people to be proactive in finding and absorbing useful knowledge and being able to draw their own lessons. From there, each of us will become more active in our own lives. In addition, self-study helps us remember knowledge for longer, each person will have a different way of synthesizing and selecting knowledge, turning the general background knowledge into a separate lesson for each person and when encountering real-life cases. There are different ways to handle it. Self-study also helps us practice perseverance because it is a long process that requires people to work hard to get the desired results.

In life, there are many self-study examples that make us admire, typically the Poinsettia Mac Dinh Chi. He was a poor child, but with his inquisitive spirit and ability to self-study, although he had to catch fireflies to make lamps, he eventually passed the poinsettia exam and became a famous mandarin under the Tran dynasty. Besides, we cannot fail to mention that it is the great President Ho Chi Minh of the nation. From an ordinary worker but with his inquisitive spirit, Uncle was not only fluent in many languages ​​but also found a revolutionary way to help his country gain independence.

However, besides the typical self-study examples mentioned above, there are still lazy people who refuse to explore and learn to expand their understanding to help society. These people deserve to be criticized.

Self-study is a good virtue that not only helps each of us practice to improve our knowledge but also contributes to the development of the whole society. Train yourself a self-study spirit so that you can absorb more of the good values ​​that people have worked so hard to build for many years.
In the world, there are many people who have succeeded thanks to their self-study method. Many people have shared their self-study experiences for many young people to follow. Self-study will bring the expected success to those who persevere and apply it appropriately.

The process of people absorbing the knowledge and skills passed on by others is the process of learning and self-study is when people find a way to absorb the knowledge and skills that have been passed on by their own strength. own ability. Our learning has not been very effective because we are passive when absorbing the knowledge that our teachers pass on. Students do not know how to deepen and create from the teachers' sketchy lectures. The rampant tutoring, relying heavily on reference books also hinders learning.

Because our education system is still weak, there are still many students who are learning and resisting. Many students memorize the lesson but do not understand the lesson, leading to the situation of knowing the theory but not knowing how to do it. Cooking this situation for a long time, students will lose their roots, causing psychological depression in learning.

Self-study will help people understand problems deeply, solve problems quickly and accurately. Self-study can be considered as the key that brings us to the treasure of knowledge, a condition to help us succeed in learning. If we know how to learn for ourselves, we will definitely succeed and improve our own knowledge. People with the spirit of self-study will actively think, explore, discover, research and grasp the essence of the problem. The spirit of self-study can help people acquire knowledge from many different sources such as books, newspapers, television and television, friends or people around, and people's life experiences. When we have the spirit of self-study, we will have a sense of actively memorizing the lectures in class, saving time, being able to absorb a large amount of knowledge while still understanding and mastering the lesson. When we have learned the theory by ourselves, we know how to actively practice practice, helping us quickly form skills and remember knowledge very well. There are many famous people who have become talents of the country from their self-study such as: Luong The Vinh, Mac Dinh Chi, Ho Chi Minh... These are the people who have perseverance in the process of self-study and are the the example we need to follow.

Understanding the importance of self-study, I will follow the example and learn from the experiences of previous generations to come up with a reasonable self-study method that is effective for myself. Self-study is the key to success, leading us to a bright future ahead.

Understanding the importance of self-study, we will be more self-disciplined in the learning process, and will bring high results. Those who know how to apply self-study methods for themselves will have extensive knowledge and will be able to become useful people to society, contributing to social development to new heights.

Social commentary: Thinking about self-study - Model 5
As society develops, the amount of knowledge increases. To meet the educational needs of the times, each person needs to find a suitable learning method. The most important of which is the self-study method. So what is self-study?

Self-study is self-discipline and initiative in learning in order to rise to grasp knowledge. Self-study is not only about receiving knowledge from teachers but also learning from friends, researching books or learning and observing from reality. Self-study plays a very important role on the educational path of each person.

Self-taught people always tinker, search, research actively and do not need to be reminded in any situation. Thanks to that, these people are always able to see the big picture, never fall behind, always be sensitive in practice because they know how to apply the knowledge they have learned. Knowledge is infinite while human memory is finite, if we only know how to learn by rote, we will not be able to turn that knowledge into our own to apply in practice but will quickly forget. Self-study will help us overcome this weakness and help us practice positive and proactive habits in difficult situations. Above all, when we study by ourselves, we can see the beauty, the beauty of knowledge, from which we become passionate about discovering and learning more new things. Self-study is our own journey to gain knowledge, and the first steps will always have many thorns and challenges, but it is those deadlocked times that motivates us to think positively. to find direction. The feeling when you realize new things yourself is really no more fun and that lesson will stay with us forever. Self-study helps us master the basics, deepen and expand our knowledge, not mechanically aware. With self-study, we can systemize what we have learned and promptly recognize our own shortcomings to promptly improve, from which we have a confident first step on the academic path. In history we see many examples of success through self-effortc such as poinsettia Mac Dinh Chi, Nguyen Hien and typically President Ho Chi Minh. Every night, after 12 hours of hard work, he taught himself French by memorizing ten words a day, and so on, he became fluent in not only French but also many other foreign languages such as Chinese and English. . He also once said "In the way of learning, self-study must be taken as the core".